==================
1.0.0 (2013-12-10)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Pull in 2.1.x-dev of typo3/eel (contains needed change)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d1c34b7 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/d1c34b7277101542bb55bb3505cef6ee402f3f64>`_

[TASK] Adjust set-dependencies.sh to SiteKickstarter changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `79a833b <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/79a833b834b65fb5df1cbf3cb3b52d378c858362>`_

[TASK] Remove minimum-stability for 1.0 branch
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `69c9749 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/69c9749c39d255c75496584a7888365391a2979c>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See http://ci.typo3.robertlemke.net/job/typo3-neos-branch/2/

* Commit: `970c46c <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/970c46cffd289afe0abe2b04baf4687907a661e0>`_

[TASK] Change dependency on SiteKickstarter to Neos.Kickstarter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e71ca8d <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/e71ca8db68e407d44372fbc7c739841394961b82>`_

[TASK] Remove Phing leftovers from Build folder
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `5d776b0 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/5d776b0ed83f18393532f87fd2992f842a2b2928>`_

[TASK] Add release scripts for Neos
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `11bfc61 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/11bfc61a9091c83376d3c8e7efe2f566d796fd11>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a dependency on typo3/neos-nodetypes (as that should be set in the
distribution).

* Commit: `112765a <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/112765a22b38e09537f8327afe44930e59d8f460>`_

[TASK] Remove composer.lock for master
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `4aea6a8 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/4aea6a8aed644825abd3bc95bdb9f95ee5acdc5d>`_

[TASK] Update Mink/Behat for use with saucelabs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The saucelabs configuration requires at least version 1.3 of the
Mink Extension.

* Resolves: `#54171 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54171>`_
* Commit: `e236a8f <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/e236a8f4a3285f72f5e127b1e10d634b8ceb25d1>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See http://ci.typo3.robertlemke.net/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/2/

* Commit: `522e189 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/522e1892cca260e89c06a68ec7820ea1aec35f83>`_

[TASK] Sync with master branch
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `630b16b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/630b16b17fefb4e5dcc98d2202c91711e5c0a33e>`_

[BUGFIX] Use correct Page node type for functional tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `f976fde <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f976fde934be2ac757fbd3ee91af394acb2a5819>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unit tests after deactivated site change
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `785b846 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/785b8465858070a6e2fa3fd98460712c7e1e4370>`_

[TASK] updated integrator guide: Inside TypoScript, Page Rendering
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 051bab69158cbe3eb9bcfb582172b9bb1241cdac)

* Commit: `bcf7417 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/bcf74173d1f3f87261d4365474efb904784df784>`_

[TASK] improve Integrator Guide: Content Structure
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 683049ca23bcfb4169b92005d3d2a372959c7efd)

* Commit: `ab8b2ea <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ab8b2ea8dbefdb40f031024d1407a2a1211ea0b1>`_

[TASK] fix styling of "Getting Started"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit e943086e0d21635435e9377ad72f1b80ecd47619)

* Commit: `a5cb8ed <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a5cb8ed1510c9873de7a2e5a38c96cf13f9012a3>`_

[TASK] Updated Getting Started Documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Checked index.rst
* Updated Installation.rst
* Updated images.
* Checked and cleaned up YourFirstSite.rst. Removed the section about
  adding a design since this is documented in the integrator guide.
* Started filling the UserInterfaceBasics.rst.
* Added a first impression image for the Backend with bullets to name
  and the different sections.

* Commit: `01c4686 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/01c46865e519193473dc4828f62fd7460675f6bd>`_

[BUGFIX] Correct handling of Document node property changes in the tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes the existing code to synchronize the tree with updates
inspector using VIE observers. To make that work correctly with all kind
of Document nodes we have to export all node types to VIE.

* Fixes: `#53610 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53610>`_

(cherry picked from commit 31a5c6ed1f690a267cf06c4fa7ed11647de8ea07)

* Commit: `a4aee34 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a4aee3456f350aeaf74f49533c60bb75e0a1420e>`_

[TASK] improve documentation: ContentStructure
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit cbaf61b604173eb1db72b4abff6c3e55e1910c3f)

* Commit: `ab7e799 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ab7e79913e91a78a42c10df5997770b6dcb77e71>`_

[TASK] improving Documentation: Eel and FlowQuery
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 079fe7678bd0e3a77021843e2d1ef72f20e05f5d)

* Commit: `df61b62 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/df61b62dd49990458509cce3959e0f73a709a3ee>`_

[TASK] update documentation (remove outdated parts from menu)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 8742ed740e960772ae313842165560f4a90caea3)

* Commit: `caebd47 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/caebd471ef89cfad814122aa3fed8eafcbe2fb4b>`_

[TASK] Cookbook for integrating a javascript based slider.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8a05f26 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8a05f26d0c4da82dc068c9307dd13fe9a9b86ea2>`_

[TASK] Update shared footer cookbook
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 4e4975fca1b05ea1efac758eccac087e652951a2)

* Commit: `f051901 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f051901a93b65d85e2c85e49faf79063eeb5d517>`_

[TASK] Hide empty cookbooks from index
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit eccebbba0f08d5a03a980d3e211d72019318608c)

* Commit: `9f963e1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9f963e1ad8fa5c9e81a29300ecaa6bbab93693c8>`_

[TASK] Add 'Select Template based on NodeType' to cookbooks
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change also removes empty cookbooks from the index and
updates the static footer cookbook.

(cherry picked from commit 4d41a1f2e6e0d9596d094efc84b69571d51b92f2)

* Commit: `c6a5ce1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c6a5ce129dea421d7eb1141a0039a8179e064c61>`_

[TASK] Overwritable Aloha options YAML settings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Setting Content Element's Aloha settings now is "DIP
switchable", i.e. the options are note anymore in a
single array, but are keys having a TRUE value each. This
allows intersecting these options better via the YAML
merging.

The VIE Schema, however, expects the settings eventually still
as real, plain array, this is adjusted in the appropriate
controller.

* Resolves: `#54273 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54273>`_
(cherry picked from commit 4ebd4e81b56e60ce8305a740f756fd1ee69e55e7)

* Commit: `d82610f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d82610f691ef0b9a9307f5b486b21b6fb93d9375>`_

[TASK] Integrator Cookbook Customize Inspector
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `897ad1b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/897ad1b48c9930ed4c49702901f8a40f2f73950d>`_

[BUGFIX] Checkboxes for inspector image editor not styled
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 681fc49c25a6b481a3822d7daabf8eef6f7a483b)

* Commit: `1e1a196 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1e1a1962d438449653278d43109d264b1ac49aed>`_

[FEATURE] Allow node type filter in menu
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d0f7231 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d0f72318294c392cf4a5088134a2a691bb5e4de4>`_

[BUGFIX] Publish menu auto publish positioning
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 93c85d1fa19308914b0ef24717b1f8156860a93c)

* Commit: `30529fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/30529fd985c0ac112483a97312f8c07359413fc2>`_

[BUGFIX] Deactivated sites are not taken into account
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The frontend always rendered the first site found in the database
without taking the state of the site into account.
This change filters for online sites and uses the first result.

* Commit: `b108b48 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b108b487463065bbd1a071eb491cdf68472e39b4>`_

[FEATURE] Command controller for workspace tasks
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Offers a way to publish or discard all nodes in a workspace::

  ./flow workspace:publishall --verbose user-foo
  ./flow workspace:discardall --verbose user-foo

(cherry picked from commit a8edb27c7c604160fc9caa112a141b1916625afc)

* Commit: `928e6db <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/928e6dbe796246f3e2038232f622b6718657668a>`_

[TASK] Change footer text on login screen
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#52203 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52203>`_

(cherry picked from commit 16194f5fd07e538546066f36b91e65c1e19a369c)

* Commit: `c388741 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c388741164b3ffe286a429687da56021af588950>`_

[BUGFIX] Abstract content selectable in insert new panel
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When inserting new content using the content element handles,
the abstract type "Content" is selectable.

(cherry picked from commit 452ee74489445bc740764a6ca79846e7dc9f5bb1)

* Commit: `06f3c72 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/06f3c7272f0f744ae428d0f92513eca9cc9228d4>`_

[BUGFIX] create new CE in ContextStructureTree uniqueNodeName
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8de8c63 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8de8c63ad9c7b0897937a64e8a54adf2fe1ead7a>`_

[TASK] Adapt setup to changed styling and provide better information
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Depends: Ia562baf8f3a6e92cf38002c9b53d5f2430850d02

* Commit: `5af9d40 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5af9d40970ab0b0fade316a43f964cf26ce99fb1>`_

[BUGFIX] Default select field shown for node tree filter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Until the availabel document types has been loaded there
is a default select box shown.

(cherry picked from commit d34bcc9d0cf3d01dd99b96e147e642d06b7c0902)

* Commit: `6468200 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6468200bbcc3f3d947014051544fc7611155e16a>`_

[TASK] Media browser & media browser styling
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#47023 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/47023>`_

(cherry picked from commit 9d45e0a944ed63d38452f12fd963165604137001)

* Commit: `72fb21a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/72fb21a719e7b93079b18bdfb6dd0bcba269631e>`_

[BUGFIX] Editing is enabled in preview mode after page reload
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 4dbba927385baf093afcff90cfff9a30deb4c54e)

* Commit: `735f64c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/735f64cfa44fb4e550af46cc10988fceb0ab3779>`_

[BUGFIX] Preview mode causes error on page load
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Because the preview mode updates the node selection it causes
a JavaScript error if the node selection hasn't been initialized.
Since we only need the feature if a node is selected we check if
the node selection has a selected node first.

(cherry picked from commit a085a9e99224b63f26e69a7dc33f218038ac7bf0)

* Commit: `cd1c0f5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cd1c0f566f25ba09a11214979184d0d707af3623>`_

[TASK] Implement TypoScript AutoInclude setting for TypoScriptView
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Packages can now register with the setting::

  TYPO3:
    Neos:
      typoScript:
        autoInclude:
          'MyVendor.MyPackageKey': TRUE

to get TypoScript in the path:
``MyVendor.MyPackageKey/Private/TypoScript/Root.ts2``
included automatically.
The order of inclusions is set by the package loading order
(and thus dependency chain of your package).
This also allows disabling of autoIncludes if needed.

Additionally it cleans the interface of methods in TypoScriptView
and TypoScriptService and prevents two parsing runs of the
TypoScript by caching the Runtime instance in the view.

Finally removes all references to the NodeTypes package.

* Commit: `06343a3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/06343a363d64d998e76131ded00764739c6f9363>`_

[BUGFIX] Raw content mode background color
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The background was set on the wrapping div
and not on the body. As result the color
didn't go to the bottom on pages with
shorter content.
Also the body class hasn't been set correctly.

* Commit: `6840e50 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6840e5031bd15735bdafb1a78233e07e1dd5d3de>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix PluginViewsEditor path in PluginNodeTypePostprocessor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Renames the ``editor`` setting to be in sync with the renamed editors
in I91542f4412ab4e1d91863c77c8058f6d84461829.

* Commit: `f615c60 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f615c60382c88d0f62715ad4000215e98c5b17b6>`_

[FIX] improves handling of editing page title and cancelling
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit f4f6acb2fe2a0670b12008020ef45aa898ef9881)

* Commit: `b5e1575 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b5e157570c807590c40d82430a974bf9c8a6a07f>`_

[TASK] Make ContentCollectionImplementation consistent again
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e26194d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e26194d76d3c43e6e5b547a101b5e839686d5bf3>`_

[TASK] Correctly calculate current level in menu
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The MenuImplementation now calculates the current level based
on the level of the site root and the level of the current
document node which give more reliable results especially when
using the startingPoint and entryLevel properties.

* Commit: `2651969 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2651969829fc24f2cd1d02379ed09cbc71d0d827>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix auto publish after page reload
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `47ca140 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/47ca1404b72001d336afe500d39598535dc63e55>`_

[BUGFIX] allow text-align and tables
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is done by more relaxed content sanitize rules.

* Commit: `70b188f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/70b188fa3e054a9136a78e3f7540b62a412e0627>`_

[BUGFIX] Boolean value must be set correctly during site import
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This bug was introduced by I760730dfa57ff9e7abea8138a58fcd46dafa2377
during the import the value are not correctly compared.

* Commit: `48ce869 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/48ce869bd2ae46807b37c6e5c9af7f4c3bec11d6>`_

[BUGFIX] Fixes refreshing of ContextStructureTree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the refreshing of the ContextStructureTree upon
a page change.

* Commit: `9d818f0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9d818f016f325a27ab1677cc32d2bbbabb95a4e8>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix mock controller context in rendering test
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `99b9d8c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/99b9d8caf36fee26f0bc46f9e0b69e2301c393f7>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove CDATA tag from login template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes an CDATA tag from the neos login form template that
has no use and were included in the rendered output..

* Commit: `0edcf07 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0edcf07d3923cd749e96b651a95062d340186cde>`_

[BUGFIX] Move homepage URI to link tag in head
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes the ``data-neos-current-site-href`` attribute from the
`neos-page-metainformation` tag in favor of a link tag in the
NeosBackendHeaderData template.

The data-neos-* attribute produced JavaScript errors when renaming
a node in the navigate component.

* Commit: `69214d3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/69214d3d8a421979c576daf88ea3ac76adce39a0>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- typo3/media is pinned to 1.0.*
- typo3/setup is pinned to 1.0.*
- typo3/flow is pinned to 2.1.*

* Commit: `7cab59c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7cab59c364e981d34ee4e63ce56750d6051aa040>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See http://ci.typo3.robertlemke.net/job/typo3-neos-branch/2/

* Commit: `dc6ce16 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/dc6ce16e424c73e2a273030c22bce337d243ede0>`_

[BUGFIX] BC layer for Editor configuration is incorrect
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The backwards compatability layer for the configurable editor change
lacks an extra level in the namespace and thus breaks editor loading
for custom node types.

This change adds the extra namespace.

* Commit: `bf492f9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/bf492f9fe207a490a068390a2af270cb2332c835>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix href of homepage link in navigate component
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The homepage node in the navigate component (globe icon) currently
only appends "@<workspace>" to the current URL.

This change fixes this by constructing the URL on the server.

Besides, this makes the ``DocumentMetadataImplementation`` obsolete
by using a ``TYPO3.TypoScript:Tag`` to render the current document
node meta data.

* Commit: `7f20acd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7f20acdf685cc0df9384dec065c22f91697b0f8c>`_

[!!!][TASK] Remove low-level plugin properties from inspector
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes the "package", "subpackage", "controller" and "action"
properties from the ``TYPO3.Neos:Plugin`` NodeType definition in
order to hide them from the inspector.

If you create a plugin you should set those properties in the
corresponding TypoScript prototype and/or make use of PluginViews.

If you really want to make those properties available in the
inspector, you can re-enable it with the following NodeTypes.yaml::

 'TYPO3.Neos:Plugin':
   properties:
     'package':
       type: string
       ui:
         label: 'Package'
         reloadIfChanged: TRUE
         inspector:
           group: 'pluginSettings'
       validation:
         'TYPO3.Neos/Validation/RegularExpressionValidator':
           regularExpression: '/^[a-z0-9]+\\.(?:[a-z0-9][\\.a-z0-9]*)+$/i'
     'subpackage':
       type: string
       ui:
         label: 'Subpackage'
         reloadIfChanged: TRUE
         inspector:
           group: 'pluginSettings'
     'controller':
       type: string
       ui:
         label: 'Controller Name'
         reloadIfChanged: TRUE
         inspector:
           group: 'pluginSettings'
     'action':
       type: string
       ui:
         label: 'Action'
         reloadIfChanged: TRUE
         inspector:
           group: 'pluginSettings'

* Commit: `c040eb9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c040eb91fdd9884f3f90d469b11662e19c90bb0e>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove ContentElementWrappingService from Plugin implementations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As ``TYPO3.Neos:Plugin`` and ``TYPO3.Neos:PluginView`` prototypes
extend ``TYPO3.Neos:Content`` the node meta data is added
automatically via the ContentElementWrapping TypoScript processor.

* Commit: `8eb40d5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8eb40d5fe3d3162c1737aac162fa315b9466c07c>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Move Page from TYPO3.Neos to TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See the corresponding change in TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes for
upgrade instructions.

Make sure to apply the corresponding change of the
``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes`` package as well, which is
Id013f5788a1f11fd9e2c9174e1e0588de0100c39.

Depends: Id013f5788a1f11fd9e2c9174e1e0588de0100c39

* Related: `#52020 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52020>`_
* Commit: `496eb8d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/496eb8d74da697d175a11f113a45e95e31aa898a>`_

[FEATURE] Made menu classes for states configurable
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Example:

prototype(TYPO3.Neos:Menu) {
	attributes.class = 'my-menu'
	active.attributes.class = 'my-active-menu-item'
	current.attributes.class = 'my-current-menu-item'
	normal.attributes.class = 'my-normal-menu-item'
}

Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/26036/
Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/26102/
Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/26101/

* Commit: `2762c7d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2762c7db455f57f318178b4e0a1af53480e89fb2>`_

[FEATURE] Close insert node panels when pressing esc
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `75279de <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/75279de0cd223e6db1f0eebe53bfc180904a388d>`_

[TASK] Adapt to removal of fluidTemplateTsObject
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The template variable ``fluidTemplateTsObject`` was removed.
This change adapts all occurances to get the TypoScriptObject
from the view instead.

* Commit: `f9560fa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f9560fa6fdb998c57aade6b7d3fc8e68986c032e>`_

[BUGFIX] Ignore nodes with broken rootline for now
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We cannot correctly handle nodes with a broken rootline
currently so we ignore them for now. You couldn't correctly
publish such a node anyway.

* Commit: `cb86b5a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cb86b5aa113e5ca4a5055b073ba82ad02d72bf9e>`_

[TASK] Adjust to renamed SiteKickstarter package
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `4a3292f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4a3292fc0c7f64dae98f40422be412fece43cf97>`_

[FEATURE] Edit/Preview Panel
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduces the positibility to add custom edit and preview modes
that can then be selected by the editor. A mode can alter the
rendering to allow a different presentation of the content.

This also separates the preview mode from the full screen mode,
making all editing and preview modes available in full screen.

Various improvements to the raw content mode is included as well,
inclusing renaming from wireframe, templates and supporting shortcuts.

* Commit: `c244221 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c2442216530b6b65f42c1c2b7a1399dcb6d164fa>`_

[FEATURE] New position selectable in node/structure tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduces the possibility to select if a new node created
should be added before, after or into in the node and context
structure trees. The default is also changed from into to after.

* Resolves: `#52793 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52793>`_
* Commit: `859c443 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/859c443ccc9ca7d30f172b180443f08fb0b78634>`_

[TASK] Overwritable Aloha options YAML settings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Setting Content Element's Aloha settings now is "DIP
switchable", i.e. the options are note anymore in a
single array, but are keys having a TRUE value each. This
allows intersecting these options better via the YAML
merging.

The VIE Schema, however, expects the settings eventually still
as real, plain array, this is adjusted in the appropriate
controller.

* Resolves: `#54273 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54273>`_
* Commit: `4ebd4e8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4ebd4e81b56e60ce8305a740f756fd1ee69e55e7>`_

[BUGFIX] Correct handling of Document node property changes in the tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes the existing code to synchronize the tree with updates
inspector using VIE observers. To make that work correctly with all kind
of Document nodes we have to export all node types to VIE.

* Fixes: `#53610 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53610>`_
* Commit: `31a5c6e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/31a5c6ed1f690a267cf06c4fa7ed11647de8ea07>`_

[BUGFIX] Detect if context node is a ContentCollection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `93dfe60 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/93dfe60ce8aaa11c8e647246a69539491a1c18f4>`_

[FEATURE] Make Validators and Editors configurable
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change allows registering of paths into requirejs and by this
allow custom validators and editors into Neos. It does so in a
backwards compatible way.

Every dataType has it's default editor set, which can have options
applied like::

  TYPO3:
    Neos:
      userInterface:
        inspector:
          dataTypes:
            'string':
              editor: 'TYPO3.Neos/TextFieldEditor'
              editorOptions:
                placeholder: 'This is a placeholder'

On a property level this can be overridden like::

  TYPO3:
    Neos:
      userInterface:
        inspector:
          properties:
            'string':
              editor: 'My.Package/TextFieldEditor'
              editorOptions:
                placeholder: 'This is my custom placeholder'

Namespaces can be registered like this::

  TYPO3:
    Neos:
      userInterface:
        requireJsPathMapping:
          'My.Package/Inspector/Editors': 'resource://My.Package/Public/Scripts/Inspector/Editors'
          'My.Package/Validation': 'resource://My.Package/Public/Scripts/Validators'

Editors should be named `<SomeType>Editor` and validators '<SomeType>Validator',
and can be referenced by `My.Package/Inspector/Editors/MyCustomEditor`
for example.

Registering specific editors and validators is also possible like::

  TYPO3:
    Neos:
      userInterface:
        inspector:
          editors:
            'TYPO3.Neos/BooleanEditor':
              path: 'resource://TYPO3.Neos/Public/JavaScript/Content/Inspector/Editors/BooleanEditor'
        validators:
          'TYPO3.Neos/AlphanumericValidator':
            path: 'resource://TYPO3.Neos/Public/JavaScript/Content/Components/Validator/AlphanumericValidator'

It's now possible to fully configure the available paths in
requirejs and as such even overwriting resources loaded by requirejs is
possible.

* Commit: `caa5387 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/caa53870afd13d335aedfe408e4b8b3d411c6e22>`_

[TASK] Prevent broken backend with Nodes that have no rootline
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `734cac1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/734cac1e3116972b77d67f9fed3d1b671d9c6c37>`_

[TASK] Follow up for ContentCollection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes the bug that prevented creation of new content.

* Commit: `ac5ef58 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ac5ef58de6b6dbd1a0d9aebe22c8ae7afed8fd5c>`_

[TASK] Disallow ContentCollection moving in Structure Tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ContentCollections shouldn't be moved in the structure tree.
It can lead to unexpected results and makes no sense anyway.

* Commit: `96e63a0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/96e63a0131ad8bdbdf4a06467774b48608051d6a>`_

[TASK] Handle missing node property with an exception
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a node was not present through TypoScript this produced a
fatal error before.

* Commit: `a11b3f8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a11b3f81ea9029455fa2a9f58982ed561e2a0cee>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove bottom border of context structure when closed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#48071 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/48071>`_
* Commit: `8f63141 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8f631415a51dff4ae7686ca817668c2f52eac910>`_

[FEATURE] ParentOperation for FlowQuery
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Allows to use::

  ${q(node).parent()}

instead of::

  ${q(node).parents().first()}

* Commit: `fe00272 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fe00272a70185e22c33c2a19b25860954a67ee40>`_

[TASK] Adapt to changes in node type manager
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This should keep the current behaviour of excluding abstract node types.
A change for the VIE schema to expose abstract nodes is pushed as a
follow-up.

Depends: Ifea0159a2956b1c43a592371ab89e678d868c055

* Commit: `e811dd3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e811dd37b3ab7f57a7f41ef90ff7e1e3df49915c>`_

[TASK] Show notifications for publish menu actions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e538a15 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e538a15505adde6adf318f27114ecd7329be105a>`_

[FEATURE] Add the possibility to discard changes from the publish menu
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `f98949f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f98949f58cb480fb222cfce2f3b0bb25dc7deb16>`_

[BUGFIX] Deleting nodes in the ContextStructureTree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1f988f5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1f988f5b4488a4e658b204c19a3667281f346050>`_

[TASK] Refactor ContentCollectionImplementation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ContentCollection should use the ContentElementWrapping instead
instead of trying to render metadata itself.
This simplifies the ContentCollectionImplementation.

* Commit: `1430dfd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1430dfde1e973768195918aa738497485b1ccee2>`_

[BUGFIX] SiblingsOperation could create recursive loop in 'in_array'.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Added tests and optimized function by collecting all context
node at first instead of searching through array for each node.

* Commit: `090ede2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/090ede285e8e61c0e804b1a1eb1bcecc21c9e40c>`_

[BUGFIX] Noto Sans font not available in bold/bold italic
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Also adds the possibility to use locally installed version
of the font in case it's available.

* Commit: `f602c75 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f602c752a0d478691398c9d685b2f616b41a656f>`_

[TASK] New TYPO3.Neos:Document TS object and fix auto generated TS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This improves the auto-generated TypoScript for TypoScript objects
based on a node type. Instead of generating code which defines
„TYPO3.Neos:Content” as base prototype for _all_ TypoScript Objects
based on _any_ node type, the TypoScriptService now distinguishes
between Document and Content.

In case a TypoScript object relates to a node type extending the
TYPO3.Neos:Content node type, the TYPO3.Neos:Content TypoScript prototype
is chosen.

In case a TypoScript object relates to a node type extending the
TYPO3.Neos:Document node type, the newly introduced TYPO3.Neos:Document
TypoScript prototype is chosen.

For all other TypoScript objects based on a node type,
TYPO3.TypoScript:Template is used as the base prototype.

This change is essential when using custom Document node types which
should contain inline editable properties.

For more background see also earlier submitted commits
9829558467394e1d3fc2a1ee28fd043602393249 and
82dd00cee4c089d5fba85bc4f705bb577ba13d43

Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/26089/

* Commit: `33231c5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/33231c578aa1d296d42005a79ee5a5a1865e3fd0>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes the dependency on typo3/neos-nodetypes (as that should be set
in the distribution).

* Commit: `20e6cd4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/20e6cd41358e18fcbe440dc116c8ff0b47850f44>`_

[TASK] Improve UserCommandController docblocks a bit
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Helps to create a better command reference for the manual.

* Commit: `77f3cac <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/77f3cac4e5772645977a973c22af6cca99d3a76c>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unpublished changes marker in page tree for moved nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1c9618c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1c9618ce6eb65447a2f4f797d1d6f721dae4fa4d>`_

[TASK] Upgrade requirejs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Upgrade requirejs and text / i18n plugin to current versions.
This done on the road while fixing conflicts with requirejs
based frontends and extensible validators / editors change.

* Commit: `c02b658 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c02b658fddd6b1f8d30e7a805bec15f75386c157>`_

[TASK] Improve backward compatibility of Site Import
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

when attempting to import "old" Site XML, there is the need
to make the site node a Shortcut to the first subpage, flag it
to be hidden in index, and add a `title` property being the
site's name.

This introduces a method to "patch" the incoming XML to
comply with the above requirements.

Note: this reverts parts of Iddc86edb51df20f1c72e280f8571b918a09af0f6
where the backward compatibility requirements were already
partially implemented.

* Resolves: `#53609 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53609>`_
* Related: `#53381 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53381>`_

* Commit: `c1b4cc5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c1b4cc5d26f5c4dad60f95158aaae124ffad6325>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix the moving of the currently selected node in the page tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Reload the tree correctly if moving a selected page
- Load the correct page of the selected page at the moved URL

* Related: `#54080 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54080>`_
* Commit: `a7d5695 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a7d5695e0cf07649ab3fbbac095c44c029b9a080>`_

[TASK] Allow redirects to login form to provide username
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This sets the ``appendExceedingArguments`` flag of the Neos login
route, so that controllers can redirect/link to the login with a
pre-entered username.

* Commit: `39ac7f6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/39ac7f6cf5ae35d659ceed2dd236263b1e71aa8a>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix error when using a class that is existing in the namespace
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A use statement causes a fatal error because the same fully qualified
class name could already be existing since a class
TYPO3\\Neos\\TypoScript\\TemplateImplementation does exist.

* Commit: `97e0d9b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/97e0d9b51f70b8001a19d616e02814a93d0acc2b>`_

[TASK] Remove TYPO3.Setup references in Policy.yaml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since Neos' Policy.yaml prevents access to any controller
action by default, TYPO3.Setup's such methods are set to
GRANTed in this package, too. This is problemtatic since
new methods in TYPO3.Setup would need adjustments in this
Neos Policy.yaml.

The security statement which is removed with this patch
is introduced / moved again in
If12e29d1b0ec147087f6a3c4436146d83e424174.

* Commit: `fdfd42a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fdfd42ac01c2cefe548329ede5e1bdfe1ad95db8>`_

[TASK] Mark pages with unpublished changes in node tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `452ac1e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/452ac1efedd590c061115b13e1fe300d9700da92>`_

[BUGFIX] Disregard `data-neos-` elements having no typeof attribute
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In vie, all DOM elements having an attribute starting with `data-neos-`
were taken into account, no matter if they actually count for vie.

This adds an additional check for them having a `typeof` attribute.

This is especially important since
I7237f97499be1e56c3ea9fa0c4403c333149c220 introduced such an element,
resulting into an incorrect "Publish (1)" state.

* Commit: `c5bce20 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c5bce20d38a8765bb0aa8f85b2c02e72ac2b6f1f>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix automatic opening of closed sticky menu on reload
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `75cf2a5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/75cf2a5a302bb3ea25842c7bcfad1974843d5694>`_

[FEATURE] prev and next FlowQuery operations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `960b1b9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/960b1b948a6500c5e7b5dbe5118227dc5ed6cdfa>`_

[!!!][TASK] Module styling and usability improvements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contains a complete overhaul of the styling for all the backend
modules including:

* Module overviews
* Workspaces
* Package management
* User settings
* User management
* Sites management

This change is breaking for all custom modules depending on the
previous styling classes and DOM structure.

* Resolves: `#49857 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/49857>`_
* Commit: `5d8ed6c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5d8ed6cb381f702782a156da90aef708fe57bd42>`_

[BUGFIX] Do not render nextUri for non-Document nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the problem of not being able to move nodes in the structure
tree of the navigate component.

* Commit: `c2bf308 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c2bf30825e98ceff3cdc58422dc57f87d190c9dc>`_

[TASK] Move lastVisitedNode functionality to external script
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Replaces the inline script that stores the last visited document node
in the session storage to an external file so that it doesn't violate
the Content Security Policy specification and so that it can be cached
by the browser.

The current node identifier is passed to the external script via a
data-neos-node attribute on the script tag.

Depends: Id3d887094e3a79e58ccfe4a89dff87ca0a96c291
* Related: `#40304 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/40304>`_
* Commit: `6300138 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/63001385f9ecbbe00f973d48ce50fb0262a63c99>`_

[TASK] Unify TypoScript implementations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Streamlines the TS implementation classes:
* Remove protected members & setters that were never evaluated
* Wrap tsValue() calls by getters to make implementations
  self-describing
* Move required default properties to TypoScript
* Commit: `eb1af54 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/eb1af54596d68432501b78cb3fc55b8e2ef05c95>`_

[TASK] Use general notifications for module flash messages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `221b01d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/221b01dbf338337029dcba9eb394bd9e8534bf1a>`_

[TASK] Add method getSubNodeTypes() in NodeTypeService.js
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1b8e2e6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1b8e2e630cfed0e44f0a22a4e141d17a08260eb3>`_

[!!!][TASK] Remove Attributes TS object
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes ``TYPO3.Neos:Attributes`` in favor of
``TYPO3.TypoScript:Attributes``.

This is a breaking change if you referred to
``TYPO3.Neos:Attributes`` in your TypoScript. In that case you should
use the TS object from the TypoScript package which is compatible to
the previous implementation.

Depends: Id9e46465482e303b8a4b526cc88d507e67f9d313

* Commit: `cfb0ef2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cfb0ef26d0e90ca63f87ddcf3a62c68a7cb63cb7>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix calls of "getWorkspaceWideUnpublishedNodes" when publishing
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Also fixes the deactivation when no unpublished changes exist.

* Commit: `0c16aaf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0c16aaf809b271707ca06ff8bd2a2000eb47394a>`_

[TASK] Render publish state color for publish menu individually
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `4fbe323 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4fbe323a35a03ff6adb34ba7ce45f46cb1a8128e>`_

[BUGFIX] Content Collection has to render removed nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `380f79b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/380f79bcd73051798af80b12d81c91c3d04d3e88>`_

[TASK] Re-introduce a view helper for manually wrapping content editables
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces a view helper ``contentElement.wrap`` which allows for
explicitly wrapping template parts with node meta data that is required
for the backend to show properties in the inspector.

Usually this ViewHelper is not required, but it enables usage of the
``contentElement.editable`` ViewHelper outside of content element
templates.

This is especially useful if you want to make properties of a custom
document node inline-editable::
 <neos:contentElement.wrap>
   <div>
     {neos:contentElement.editable(property: 'someProperty')}
   </div>
 </neos:contentElement.wrap>

* Commit: `e205598 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e20559803ec7fb0ee4ccbc8a7ad0871a52f6d2ed>`_

[!!!][FEATURE] Use Tag TypoScript object for <title> instead of template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is breaking because existing sites will have duplicate title tags if they used the old template way.

* Commit: `1c87ae1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1c87ae1487e67c924cb2dccecd8588646bd97892>`_

[TASK] Icons are not overwritten by other icon-fonts
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `72520bf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/72520bf95f0617a6859aab9c1044882c6858d8c2>`_

[BUGFIX] Modified/error borders hidden for date fields in inspector
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#48091 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/48091>`_
* Commit: `cc4e7cc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cc4e7cca60321e5c65e6070bda12de358e56870b>`_

[FEATURE] Styling of aloha link editor + search results
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#48075 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/48075>`_
* Commit: `9034926 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9034926f0012f55e723f2e8b01e800578b806363>`_

[FEATURE] Improved notifications + styling
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#48139 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/48139>`_
* Commit: `c356ff5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c356ff5dbdf2ca8dde01dabc03a59f164ad7de7d>`_

[!!!][TASK] Disable TYPO3.Neos:Template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes TYPO3.Neos:Template non-functional and lets it output
a warning which hints on using TYPO3.TypoScript:Template instead.

Leaving the old functionality in place and only deprecating it, would
lead to people still using it and not being aware of the side effects.

* Commit: `b6ecdac <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b6ecdac64f1256571193e9952568b6e56fdb5261>`_

[TASK] Include font files locally
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `461ccf8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/461ccf88d874501da81a5db1875b5e4bd7b7edf8>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unreliable auto-save of CreateJS by tracking changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change overrides some part of the midgardStorage widget to add
a better tracking of changes by storing the versions of models to
check if a model can be removed from the changed list after saving.

A follow-up could implement a better saving strategy that uses a
throttled setTimeout instead of a fixed interval.

The change updates CreateJS to the latest state including the
pull-request for the Aloha fixes.

* Commit: `4efdef9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4efdef90cc68e8770e95e65ca60bbc2bbda2e3e5>`_

[TASK] Show the number of "Publish all" changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `0bafa90 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0bafa90b1cc8b4c650df8ca6541ead028948cb59>`_

[TASK] Register media backend module in Neos
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds the media management to the management modules.

* Commit: `a77e5ad <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a77e5ad0c0a3d94934328cef39489150e9322737>`_

[TASK] Update "Publish all" state automatically
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes implements a new method to get all unpublished changes for
the current workspace and allows you to use the "Publish all" button
on pages without unpublished changes.

* Commit: `27a2611 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/27a26114636fbb3fe428bdba9cceac894278cecb>`_

[BUGFIX] CreateJS: Handle modified Aloha editables correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change updates CreateJS with a bugfix for the alohaWidget. The
widget did not correctly receive all changes to an Aloha editable,
because Aloha triggers no events for some changes like formatting
actions. These have to be polled explicitly.

The updated source in "update-createjs-to-master" can be changed back
to the main create repository as soon as our pull request is merged.

* Commit: `38d8894 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/38d8894f5a85fe2b3a37b2471ee63fb3cde79558>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove remaining grunt configuration for Hallo
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `89abbd0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/89abbd0617d4236d0d3eea5719e479d4e235dedc>`_

[TASK] Clean up style sheets
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Removes all old color constants
* Removes old unused styles

* Commit: `8e60aa7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8e60aa750b0fa34f63e6b68e9abee991b1d36426>`_

[BUGFIX] Width of inspector fields changes when scrollbar is visible
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The inspector fields for date and images didn't have a explicit width
of 288 pixels, which lead to them becomming smaller when the scrollbar
is visible. They should however remain the same width scrollbar or not.

* Commit: `c557d93 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c557d936f9dbde5d4d81ec7afd7e9a5466167a97>`_

[BUGFIX] Register mousedown event when datepicker is open and remove it on close
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `99c0f3e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/99c0f3ee5d7fc9216b0ae2e4a3a54db86834c830>`_

[TASK] Remove hallo.js
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `3fe3fb2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/3fe3fb2352d8619cf460b332602dfd95e3a54177>`_

[TASK] Remove extjs-sass-theme
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `180363f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/180363f6f43acfde92d47f6d94b4a1fa86dbff41>`_

[TASK] Remove unused images
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `a8e5213 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a8e5213e35dc7ee1b4727cfe907fc9590cb0e7d3>`_

[TASK] Update mousetrap and use an own include
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mousetrap was loaded from the create dependencies which is an old
version. This change updates Mousetrap and allows for wrapping
our version using grunt.

* Commit: `c19ca8c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c19ca8c055e600eb1dd51b036c6b9a1ff2529f14>`_

[FEATURE] Provide public extension points for JS and CSS includes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds extension points for stylesheet and script includes
to the Page prototype. The following paths are rendered by an Array
and can be extended with custom items to include CSS or JS::

    page = Page {

        head.stylesheets.site = '...'
        head.javascripts.jquery = '...'

        body.javascripts.app = '...'

    }

* Commit: `a9d4c3b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a9d4c3be14e94894bae69912d273ad634add0d3c>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix minor typos in comment for javascript
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit fixes some minor typos for comment in
different javascript files.s

* Commit: `83752ab <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/83752ab7bb18d5ed9a626511ef016258be3eebfd>`_

[TASK] Do not show removed content even when logged in
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#54253 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54253>`_
* Relates: `#53317 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53317>`_

* Commit: `987d67a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/987d67a600164e954f9d7fdd0a13b584030318a7>`_

[BUGFIX] Import path for chosen styles in navigate panel
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d7b223e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d7b223e2b06f6ad2069e297778c285b684e8ab97>`_

[TASK] Add a notice to error messages that points to the setup
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes adds a new variable that can be configured in error
messages to give a hint that the setup can be used to solve the
problem. If a message is configured a link to the setup will appear.

* Commit: `102dd07 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/102dd078eb9e3aa28b16b92909ea8ecf289b1f97>`_

[TASK] Expose node to body template in TypoScript
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `05c593c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/05c593c0ef7d20be06cd204226ca8a150cb345c9>`_

[BUGFIX] Empty content elements must be wrapped correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``HtmlAugmenter`` that is used to add meta data attributes to content
elements in the backend issues a warning if the given content is an
empty string.

This change fixes this by adding an empty check to the
``getHtmlRootElement()`` method.

* Related: `#54137 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54137>`_
* Commit: `5d9a197 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5d9a1972c86516671cd03770b18fc6d39416d8ea>`_

[TASK] Update the "Publish all changes" policy settings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The "Publish all changes" button is currently broken due
to wrong policy settings, this results in Access denied
policy error.

* Commit: `475241d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/475241d9f186c8a6632102322d7687db2d73d13c>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix policy security settings for Workspace module
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When publish using "Publish all changes" or "Discard all changes"
in workspace module an security execeptions is thrown.

This commit adds the correct parameter to the security
settings.

* Commit: `d00e434 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d00e434a25daf4376b1c91ea2aa28b0632573eda>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust preview button icon margin when active
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `c272a0b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c272a0b5e1b21336f978d1caf86777679a3dcfcc>`_

[TASK] Improve Behat documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a tip and corrects the provided example
configuration.

* Commit: `d2b9647 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d2b964780ee538d36ce3ebedfe8b9dd5a0ac5699>`_

[TASK] Fix rendering of code blocks in Integrators Cookbook doc
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For the ReST renderer to render the following lines as a code block,
there needs to be an empty line after the "::".

* Commit: `d5a9cdc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d5a9cdcdc69f7fce5ff9c51bdb48b282398563a2>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix functional test fixtures after node rendering changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e285158 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e285158bc7afa77bdf0c5656121cf08f1f1a056b>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Mark TYPO3.Neos:Page as abstract
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change marks the NodeType "TYPO3.Neos:Page" as abstract in
order to not render it anymore within the backend but keep things
working for users updating from beta2 or earlier.

(cherry picked from commit 29256cf1d323324df0f128014933a351ee9a8a48)

* Commit: `a49a816 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/a49a816134772470bc923816885fd6b393116d7c>`_

[TASK] Adapt to TypoScript autoInclude of Neos
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b3a3a14 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/b3a3a1455e359a4970993257b5e99ffbe79756ec>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See http://ci.typo3.robertlemke.net/job/typo3-neos-branch/2/

* Commit: `02570d1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/02570d1a4f505e718255c8ca0f43b5cac2576e95>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix SelectBoxEditor inclusion
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b3c147d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/b3c147d2c17309fde9e36a09a72f70782248f9e2>`_

[FEATURE] Made node types menu classes for states configurable
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Example:

prototype(TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Menu) {
	attributes.class = 'my-menu'
	active.attributes.class = my-'active-menu-item'
	current.attributes.class = 'my-current-menu-item'
	normal.attributes.class = 'my-normal-menu-item'
}

Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/26036/
Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/26102/
Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/26101/

* Commit: `89d4450 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/89d44506731e5fec469cfbb4655ccda1a31bda4a>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Move Page from TYPO3.Neos to TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To update, run:

* ./flow core:migrate --package-key Your.SitePackage # updates your TypoScript and NodeTypes.yaml
* ./flow node:migrate live 20130911165510 # updates your Node structure

Technically, this change only deprecates TYPO3.Neos:Page not actually
removing it yet -- so rendering will still work as before for sites
which did not do the upgrade from above.

The footer below makes sure that this code migration is not applied anymore to
this package.

Make sure to apply the corresponding change of the TYPO3.Neos package as well,
which is I35d0ee4eeff5096d9801445bf1c0dc69c6626d44.

* Related: `#52020 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52020>`_
* Commit: `ab82a0b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/ab82a0b8913d3a21e137144acc255f88eef2514f>`_

[TASK] Adjust Aloha options to new settings structure
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Following I6e43eba2a91f82b67102c6f1c29391530ab79be6, this
adjusts the Node Type Aloha settings to be "switchable"
rather than a simple array.

Depends: I6e43eba2a91f82b67102c6f1c29391530ab79be6
* Related: `#54273 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54273>`_
* Commit: `e047d0c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/e047d0c9b51ce9e83e692335b9aec919b6722320>`_

[TASK] Adapt to configurable editors and validators change
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See: I91542f4412ab4e1d91863c77c8058f6d84461829

* Commit: `4703b35 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/4703b3503641e3febb10ba8c448fb59f73df7398>`_

[TASK] Refactor ContentCollection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ContentCollection should use the WrappingImplementation instead
of dealing with the metadata itself.

As ContentCollection is now using the WrappingImplementation
the MultiColumnItem shouldn't extend from TYPO3.Neos:Content as
in fact it is no NodeType itself and it would result in
duplicated metadata rendered.

* Commit: `1aaaad4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/1aaaad41904eb5c692fe19f5c727c0600e92e66d>`_

[TASK] Adjust composer manifest, only depend on typo3/neos
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The former dependencies on Flow and TypoScript are implicit with Neos.

* Commit: `c4cd8b1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/c4cd8b18592ee9c3a851392275f03cb1482108b2>`_

[TASK] Use TYPO3.Neos:Content instead of TYPO3.Neos:Template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b4f50da <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/b4f50da8e7433e74a39b77f6f90ee59134ae6dd5>`_

[FEATURE] Support configurable cropping / upscaling for images
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds two new properties in TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Image
to configure if the cropping or up scaling is allowed.

* Resolves: `#51980 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/51980>`_
* Commit: `bae0cfe <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/bae0cfe054c6a028e1031e2660dd6b88068e623c>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.SiteKickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Mark TYPO3.Neos:Page as abstract
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change marks the NodeType "TYPO3.Neos:Page" as abstract in
order to not render it anymore within the backend but keep things
working for users updating from beta2 or earlier.

(cherry picked from commit 29256cf1d323324df0f128014933a351ee9a8a48)

* Commit: `a49a816 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/a49a816134772470bc923816885fd6b393116d7c>`_

[TASK] Adapt to TypoScript autoInclude of Neos
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b3a3a14 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/b3a3a1455e359a4970993257b5e99ffbe79756ec>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See http://ci.typo3.robertlemke.net/job/typo3-neos-branch/2/

* Commit: `02570d1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/02570d1a4f505e718255c8ca0f43b5cac2576e95>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix SelectBoxEditor inclusion
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b3c147d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/b3c147d2c17309fde9e36a09a72f70782248f9e2>`_

[FEATURE] Made node types menu classes for states configurable
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Example:

prototype(TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Menu) {
	attributes.class = 'my-menu'
	active.attributes.class = my-'active-menu-item'
	current.attributes.class = 'my-current-menu-item'
	normal.attributes.class = 'my-normal-menu-item'
}

Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/26036/
Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/26102/
Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/26101/

* Commit: `89d4450 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/89d44506731e5fec469cfbb4655ccda1a31bda4a>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Move Page from TYPO3.Neos to TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To update, run:

* ./flow core:migrate --package-key Your.SitePackage # updates your TypoScript and NodeTypes.yaml
* ./flow node:migrate live 20130911165510 # updates your Node structure

Technically, this change only deprecates TYPO3.Neos:Page not actually
removing it yet -- so rendering will still work as before for sites
which did not do the upgrade from above.

The footer below makes sure that this code migration is not applied anymore to
this package.

Make sure to apply the corresponding change of the TYPO3.Neos package as well,
which is I35d0ee4eeff5096d9801445bf1c0dc69c6626d44.

* Related: `#52020 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52020>`_
* Commit: `ab82a0b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/ab82a0b8913d3a21e137144acc255f88eef2514f>`_

[TASK] Adjust Aloha options to new settings structure
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Following I6e43eba2a91f82b67102c6f1c29391530ab79be6, this
adjusts the Node Type Aloha settings to be "switchable"
rather than a simple array.

Depends: I6e43eba2a91f82b67102c6f1c29391530ab79be6
* Related: `#54273 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54273>`_
* Commit: `e047d0c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/e047d0c9b51ce9e83e692335b9aec919b6722320>`_

[TASK] Adapt to configurable editors and validators change
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See: I91542f4412ab4e1d91863c77c8058f6d84461829

* Commit: `4703b35 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/4703b3503641e3febb10ba8c448fb59f73df7398>`_

[TASK] Refactor ContentCollection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ContentCollection should use the WrappingImplementation instead
of dealing with the metadata itself.

As ContentCollection is now using the WrappingImplementation
the MultiColumnItem shouldn't extend from TYPO3.Neos:Content as
in fact it is no NodeType itself and it would result in
duplicated metadata rendered.

* Commit: `1aaaad4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/1aaaad41904eb5c692fe19f5c727c0600e92e66d>`_

[TASK] Adjust composer manifest, only depend on typo3/neos
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The former dependencies on Flow and TypoScript are implicit with Neos.

* Commit: `c4cd8b1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/c4cd8b18592ee9c3a851392275f03cb1482108b2>`_

[TASK] Use TYPO3.Neos:Content instead of TYPO3.Neos:Template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b4f50da <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/b4f50da8e7433e74a39b77f6f90ee59134ae6dd5>`_

[FEATURE] Support configurable cropping / upscaling for images
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds two new properties in TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Image
to configure if the cropping or up scaling is allowed.

* Resolves: `#51980 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/51980>`_
* Commit: `bae0cfe <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.SiteKickstarter.git/commit/bae0cfe054c6a028e1031e2660dd6b88068e623c>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[FEATURE] Allow to preset node identifier in NodeTemplate
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If creating nodes from external data it can be useful to set the UUID
the new nodes get. This change adds setIdentifier() to NodeTemplate.

* Commit: `ce48ce6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/ce48ce650e8a3344e1637ff5709153af16975fb5>`_

[BUGFIX] Make reference(s) properties self-repairing
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It could happen that properties if type reference(s) end up in the
properties of NodeData not as identifiers (as expected) but as
serialized NodeData instances. This change repairs those cases
on-thy-fly.

Also it amends the check when settings reference(s) properties to also
handle AbstractNodeData in addition to NodeInterface.

* Commit: `e0e2a1a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/e0e2a1a51a93eef3a92789d2ddb2b94f7ce04a83>`_

[BUGFIX] NodeTypeManager returns abstract types
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NodeTypeManager::getNodeTypes() returns abstract node types even if
the `includeAbstractNodeTypes` flag is FALSE.

This change fixes this and cleans up the NodeTypeManager.

* Commit: `444707e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/444707e6176e23e67ce40f7d396b0d2229799411>`_

[!!!][TASK] Change accessors for node types to include abstract nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Change the NodeTypeManager API to return abstract nodes by default for
the operations getNodeTypes, getSubNodeTypes and to not throw
errors on getNodeType with an abstract node type.

The methods get an additional boolean flag to exclude abstract nodes
when returning values for convenience.

* Commit: `65e36ba <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/65e36ba9d60ba91006dca498b271e726867530e6>`_

[BUGFIX] similarize must not merge node properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NodeData::similarize() currently merges properties of the source
code additively to the current node.

This change resets the properties before the merging so that
non-existing properties are removed from the target node.

* Commit: `82b6d06 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/82b6d06ae1910ccb972ae74e8218d3e11b25ea64>`_

[!!!][TASK] Prevent multiple persistence commits on setPath
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently nodes are persisted after every call of setPath, even
recursively which is unneeded. With this change persist happens
only at the end of a recursive setPath call chain.

This is only breaking if you use Node::setPath() in your own
code as persisting the changes is no longer happening
automatically.

* Resolves: `#53607 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53607>`_
* Commit: `40d2c05 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/40d2c05ce8cfa1708037231d59924b944329940b>`_

[TASK] Introduce method NodeTypeManager->getNodeTypes()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces a new method which allows for retrieval of all node types

* Commit: `2ae0b70 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/2ae0b705a84d500fc6cea5f5aefc04a251e86124>`_

[TASK] Allow fetching of just removed nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `632c25a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/632c25a0c31ed90e828d39021a8bfd9d3a223204>`_

[TASK] Similarize target node instead of deleting
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change will update the strategy of publishing nodes to keep the
original node data and remove the workspace copy if an existing node
was changed.

* Commit: `5550dec <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/5550dec5e4ab450ed1716913a47c858a91fee33b>`_

[BUGFIX] Don't publish arbitrary nodes from any workspace
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a check if the node that should be published is actually in
the workspace where the publish operation was called.

It fixes the publishing of changed documents after the introduction of
a unique constraint on the workspace and path in
I75faece045ae2df9249744956886c270b291fb64.

* Fixes: `#54262 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54262>`_
* Commit: `42826b2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/42826b23bebfad4cff4252d90c5e14695875fc8b>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent corrupted node trees
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently if two nodes with the same path are in the same workspace,
an exception is thrown putting Neos into an irreversible state.

This change adds a unique index so that duplicate paths are prevented
on the database level.

Note: This is only a safeguard to prevent the incorrect state from
being persisted. When publishing a node with a duplicate path now,
still an exception is thrown. But at least the state is now
reversible through the UI (by discarding the workspace changes).

Background:
Simply adding a unique index over the "path" and "workspace" columns
did not work out, because of the large columns. This is the reason
for the new column "hashedPath" that always contains the MD5 hash of
the current path.
In a future change we can adjust some of the node lookups to compare
the value with a pre-calculated hash over the path for a possible
performance boost.

* Related: `#54080 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54080>`_
* Commit: `9f3b3b9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/9f3b3b94594148e89b6d44200a25c537996a4bac>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Prevent Exceptions in TypoScriptPathProxy
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `6957d03 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/6957d03bdd76a48c6df111d71120741295411886>`_

[TASK] TypoScript Parser shouldn't be singleton
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `283f494 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/283f4943d2082566447da86e2b630d1cb6b590e0>`_

[BUGFIX] Default namespace is not available in included TS files
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A default namespace (or any other namespace) defined in the TypoScript
parser is not defined for included TypoScript files because the parser
will create a whole new instance when parsing the include. This change
fixes this behaviour by creating a clone of the parser instead.

* Commit: `5aae722 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/5aae72252300074f5d65b13d3806498e6d7be008>`_

[TASK] Enable „Configuration” Eel Helper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Requires https://review.typo3.org/#/c/25652/ to be applied

* Commit: `681aa98 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/681aa987a62d555b77d8398f38cc6280cb0c5fd6>`_

[TASK] Tweak UriBuilder TypoScript object
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Slightly improves the UriBuilderImplementation by providing
description for all getters and by reducing calls to tsValue().
This also removes all protected fields and setters as they were
not used.

* Commit: `1442553 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/1442553941821add9cecabb67eff0908ff0c05c0>`_

[!!!][TASK] Remove fluidTemplateTsObject from TemplateVariableContainer
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Get rid of the ``fluidTemplateTsObject`` variable exposed in the
``TemplateVariableContainer`` inside Templates and ViewHelpers.
This is more robust as you don't have to pass this
variable around.

This is only breaking if you implement ViewHelpers that need
access to the TypoScriptObject. I this case you now need to use:

  $this->viewHelperVariableContainer->getView()
    ->getTypoScriptObject();

Or if you implemented your own view and TypoScriptObject and rely
on the fact that you get the TypoScriptObject assign as variable.
You will need to implement the TypoScriptAwareViewInterface.

* Commit: `a777a88 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/a777a889c8166c236fd862edc938301f6caae262>`_

[TASK] Unify TypoScript implementations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Streamlines the TS implementation classes:
* Remove protected members & setters that were never evaluated
* Wrap tsValue() calls by getters to make implementations
  self-describing
* Move required default properties to TypoScript
* Commit: `d1eea30 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/d1eea30fd642cffa7bf72a7a51e873521e485ea4>`_

[TASK] Attributes TypoScript object
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduces an ``Attributes`` TS object that can be used to render
valid HTML/XML attributes.
This also adjusts the ``Tag`` TS object to make use of the Attributes
prototype internally.

usage::
 attributes = TYPO3.TypoScript:Attributes {
   foo = 'bar'
   class = TYPO3.TypoScript:RawArray {
     class1 = 'class1'
     class2 = 'class2'
   }
 }

Besides this adds some user friendly description to existing TS
prototype definitions.

* Commit: `2a04221 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/2a042216e0ebeec446049bfa311686d5889376b3>`_

[FEATURE] Resource TypoScript object
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Implements a simple TS object that can be used to render URLs to
public resources::

 image = TYPO3.TypoScript:ResourceUri {
   path = 'resource://Some.Package/Public/Images/Image.png'
 }

* Resolves: `#54274 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54274>`_
* Commit: `b2051af <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/b2051afc5de2ba9834b5b8a038d868f774f2b458>`_

[TASK] Refactor Collection to enable versatile content collection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `106d19c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/106d19c6eea613057abead908c1fa5f6b6642767>`_

[BUGFIX] allow to use "this" inside a processor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This allows stuff like::

    template = Template
    // let's imagine "template" contains the string: "Hello"
    template.@process.1 = ${value + this.personName}
    template.personName = ' Christopher'

This will now render: "Hello Christopher"; instead of just "Hello".

We need this feature in order to provide "page.body.scripts"; a centralized
entry point for JavaScript inside the body.

* Commit: `ae9ffa9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/ae9ffa985504216c51644aa0f7b7031fd43acd40>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix parser behaving incorrect with PHP 5.3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A recent fix to handle processors in a position independent way
introduced a bug with PHP 5.3 because of a missing check for an array.

* Commit: `8e5107d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/8e5107d249f1112c23ff096c25450b4b16a77e5e>`_

[!!!][TASK] Do not trim rendered strings
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To make the output more predictable and allow for spaces at the
start and end of strings rendered in TypoScript trim was removed.

If you rely on your output to be trimmed this is breaking. You
can get the same behavior if you apply a String.trim() processor
to the TypoScript object for which the output should be trimmed.

* Commit: `7e020d4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/7e020d4ceada321a1ac5abdc6b0e755484eb845b>`_

[BUGFIX] make sure simple values do not override processors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Setting a simple property on a TypoScript object has reset its processors,
as shown in the following example::

    page = TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Text {
        text.@process.1 = ${String.toUpperCase(value)}
        text = 'foo bar'
    }

Expected::

 FOO BAR

Actual (without this change)::

 foo bar

* Fixes: `#54194 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54194>`_
* Commit: `1292e17 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/1292e176e0ae9302482520f298791eb587ea4313>`_

[FEATURE] UriBuilder TypoScript object
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces a ``TYPO3.TypoScript:UriBuilder`` TypoScript
object that can be used to generate URLs::

	page.head.canonical = TYPO3.TypoScript:Tag {
		tagName = 'link'
		attributes {
			rel = 'canonical'
			href = TYPO3.TypoScript:UriBuilder {
				package = 'TYPO3.Neos'
				controller = 'Frontend\\\\Node'
				action = 'show'
				absolute = TRUE
				arguments {
					node = ${node}
				}
			}
		}
	}

* Commit: `4a387a5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/4a387a51c1cbc93cbb74b8e2a03ce43331dad588>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Demo site pages use the page from nodetypes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `dd5e7d9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/dd5e7d94c38c2ff5bf95238d78b28422cf3880cb>`_

[BUGFIX] Make normal images fluid
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `3abffc4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/3abffc4371f81f592e9a4cb741b9fb5bb405b714>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove two left-over "TYPO3.Neos:Page" occurrences from Sites.xml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2951bdc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/2951bdc410f8044d0d51a35227d9118bc099be67>`_

[TASK] Cleanup and document content elements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds inline documentation to TypoScript and NodeType definitions
and tweaks PHP, TS and HTML snippets.

(cherry picked from commit 9b937c56de23419ebadf8bef293cf2b07f400af2)

* Commit: `28be63c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/28be63c99e6cd5cde5de8f773d2498fbb5cf96eb>`_

[TASK] Finishing touches for the demo site
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Carousel only renders images
* Images in header are responsive
* Added headers to alle pages without one
* Rearranged menu items and content
* Added flickr plugin
* Commit: `56a5dbc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/56a5dbc4257f5b75e177496e43ede5ee12c30020>`_

[FEATURE] Flickr plugin example
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a simple "flickr" plugin to the demo site to demonstrate the
``PluginView`` feature of Neos.

* Commit: `1c7b578 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/1c7b578c4d69b327010a584cea2688beaa250d0d>`_

[TASK] Move Page from TYPO3.Neos to TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the Site.xml to the moved `Page` node type.
The Migration footer is added here to not let the
migration tool grab that change.

Depends: I35d0ee4eeff5096d9801445bf1c0dc69c6626d44
Depends: Id013f5788a1f11fd9e2c9174e1e0588de0100c39

* Related: `#52020 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/52020>`_
* Commit: `18fa14c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/18fa14c8462d3f9c51728f28874d7e6d998745fe>`_

[FEATURE] Print preview and styling for demo site
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds "Print" preview mode to backend.
Adds print.css.
Print style will be applicated in print preview mode.
Fixes margins for top navigation when preview panel is open.

Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/24949/

* Commit: `0a9f37a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/0a9f37a39c090cd2d880ef74d333bbb8cb2dfb5a>`_

[TASK] Adjust Aloha options to new settings structure
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

According to #54273 this adjusts the Headline setting,
and additionally introduces the possibility to have
an h5 heading.

Associated revisions are
I6e43eba2a91f82b67102c6f1c29391530ab79be6 and
I1e24e4fcefa4948340c1a829651f7f7178dfcc7c.

* Related: `#54273 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54273>`_
* Commit: `bfe8d1d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/bfe8d1da5b28bf26779f92c9e07b4d96ed9c3376>`_

[BUGFIX] Localization reference corrected to the right package
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to a reference to the TYPO3.Form package error messages could
not be translated.
The reference is corrected to the TYPO3.Flow package.

* Commit: `6bbedef <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/6bbedef1fb69524acdeadb3e1f337c17e6e532d2>`_

[TASK] Refactoring and js fixes for demo site.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Replaced comments with hashes to double dashes.
Topnav will behave correctly when loading other pages in backend.
Fixed typos and removed some lost content elements.
Added the contact form again to the plugins page and disabled the mail finisher.
The youtube element is now responsive.
Some other minor improvements.

Depends on https://review.typo3.org/#/c/26081

* Commit: `19f14ec <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/19f14ecbca6d850e94ebc412e1debf0036870abf>`_

[TASK] Use the new titleTag in the demo site
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Depends on https://review.typo3.org/26059

* Commit: `48b69d0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/48b69d0e43db2c922648bdfa7fe33724f5f838f8>`_

[TASK] Improved responsive styling for demo site.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removed excessive white space in breadcrumb in mobile view.
Body padding is computed in relation to the navbars height.
Chapter navigation has less white space in mobile view.
Main navigation links have full width and second level menu is aligned to center.
Bit of refactoring in javascript.

* Commit: `9344002 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/9344002ff679a72bf995d5554ee38c989ff9e362>`_

[TASK] Updated plugins page in demo site
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Moved registration plugin to "try me" page.
Removed roadmap page.
Added alice pictures to slider again.
Refactored registration controller.
Registration redirect to neos login currently requires a fix in Neos Authentication Routes "appendExceedingArguments: TRUE"

* Commit: `862e47d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/862e47d878ea18146b8a688ade9f021da35add12>`_

[TASK] Update demo site TypoScript to removed TYPO3.Neos:Template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `536c820 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/536c820ed98b8ded7399a0ede46c0f1fed9314e9>`_

[FEATURE] Chapters for demo site
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Enhanced chapter node type to use its own layout.
Special layout with less navigation elements and improved readability.
Pagination from chapter to chapter.
All 12 chapters of alice included.

* Commit: `88e150f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/88e150f5587e9bfa0445daae9a7063f8539ab502>`_

[BUGFIX] Several layout and ts fixes for the demo site
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

'has-subpages' query for body class now works correctly.
Javascript section is now correctly setup.
Renamed typeplate scss files to match other files.
Reversed title structure so you see the current page and not always home in the browser tab.
Improved some paddings and margins when the menu wraps.

* Commit: `bd26bd4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/bd26bd4ee42f71e0f8840abeacdb396077658b58>`_

[TASK] Add h4 to aloha format for node type TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Headline
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b1218b8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/b1218b8accb7df5736f6ca9ce7f6bed82c9311dd>`_

