==================
1.0.2 (2014-03-03)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See http://ci.typo3.robertlemke.net/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/4/

* Commit: `695a3ca <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/695a3ca11bb571ae4cb7cc3024c4208e3a45c91c>`_

[BUGFIX] Secondary inspector is rendered outside viewport in FF
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The secondary inspector opens from the right to the left using a
transition, but in Firefox the left positioning is incorrect so it
animates to a position which is outside the viewport.

This patch changes the animation to be done on the left css property
to make it less error prone.

* Fixes: `#54401 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54401>`_
* Commit: `d60059c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d60059ccf7e8097b6f12d0ef425baf3d31c359aa>`_

[BUGFIX] A better way of parsing the HTML of asynchronous page loads
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The change I3234d053ade3c92448a9538e24731c6df8e83f8a introduced a small
regression by slightly changing the way of parsing the returned HTML
of an asynchronous page load. This leads to problems if the page
contained script tags that manipulate the dom (e.g. `document.write`).

This change adjusts the page loading to use the same jQuery function
as before.

* Commit: `33be32b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/33be32bb773714499becd82757797272b8473833>`_

[TASK] Optimize typical filter usages of EEL children operation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The children operation supports filters, two typical cases are
filter by node name and filter by NodeType (instanceof). These
cases are now optimized and will only load the Nodes that match
the filter.

* Commit: `7adc18c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7adc18c0dc2ac4292885f523c84cbd03049dc994>`_

[BUGFIX] Default attributes property of menu TypoScript object
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The template of the menu TypoScript object uses the attributes
property by default and for convenience it should be predefined
as a attribute object so it's easy to extend.

* Commit: `f7510dd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f7510dd1e93a4d1347fa0d811fda50369311b3bc>`_

[BUGFIX] "node" used in label for create new dialog
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Get rid of the undesired word "node" in the insert new element overlay
since the word shouldn't be exposed to the editor. It also keeps in
consistant with the other instances of insert new in the navigate component.

* Commit: `19afc84 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/19afc844acdc6e6d8872e3f92cc0dd84e2a4956b>`_

[BUGFIX] Security policies in Neos are too strict
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The current security policies fail with a "could not authenticate
any token" if an initializeAction is made public.

This change updates the policy so it does not match initialize
actions to prevent this error.

* Fixes: `#54592 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54592>`_
* Commit: `9578321 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9578321c3437e8e0d42a714d9631bc29a420f192>`_

[BUGFIX] Link inceptor handling of local links
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixed default action to happen if link shouldn't be intercepted
* Fixed handling of absolute internal links
* Fixed handling of internal links with hash tags
* Fixed clicking links inside editables in preview mode
* Updated jQuery event handlers to use on
* Commit: `5d1f534 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5d1f534543fb6d082f1ae5e8fb8f3ac6309a7c99>`_

[BUGFIX] Node tree filter too wide in Firefox
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b366ff7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b366ff783c35563076b107f6d80441dfa61b3207>`_

[BUGFIX] Sites management module widget action button
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The action button for the sites management module widget
points to a unresolved path due to the action name is camelcased.
Since all module paths are automatically lowercased we can safely
convert actions names into lowercase when creating links for them.
In case a custom path is desired that's already configurable.

* Commit: `0d57158 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0d571586db11fe39fbc0200d7f90acdf9483e7b3>`_

[TASK] Improve usability of position menus in navigate component
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Makes it possible to select a new position for the new or paste
buttons without having to click twice when using a mouse.

* Related: `#48071 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/48071>`_
* Commit: `1299cec <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1299cec718b6f61f428fa71fcf6991583f3d49d1>`_

[BUGFIX] Title missing for paste/new buttons in navigate component
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the navigate component the paste and new buttons are
missing a title tag, unlike the other buttons.
This commit fixes those title tags for both the node tree
and context structure tree.

* Commit: `5c2f200 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5c2f20087a1099cd5893001cae20f6ce0e3a4c66>`_

[BUGFIX] Shortcut to siteroot has no active state
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The new menu implementation returns a state normal for
nodes equal to the siteroot. This prevents a menu which
contains a shortcut to the homepage to render an active
state.

A menu could now render an active state on the shortcut
to the homepage by for example using a custom node type
for the homepage and adding the following condition:

  <f:if condition="{item.node.nodeType.name} == 'My.Package:Homepage'">
      <f:then>
          <li class="{f:if(condition:'{item.state}==\\'current\\'', then:'active')}">
              <neos:link.node node="{item.node}">{item.label}</neos:link.node>
          </li>
      </f:then>
      <f:else>
          ...
      </f:else>
  </f:if>

* Related: `#55873 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/55873>`_
* Commit: `ff7cf76 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ff7cf76ac30b6df6fbf46932ccca73cac572a034>`_

[TASK] Fix minor errors in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The integrator cookbook was referring to node type TYPO3.Neos:Page
which was recently changed to TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Page. Also the
quotes in an example of using prototypes was incorrect.

* Commit: `858d11b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/858d11bdffd81531461602156229b5c2eacffa46>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Only accepts URLs with the configured URI suffix
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes two obsolete routes and adjusts the
``FrontendNodeRoutePartHandler`` so that it matches the full node path.

Background:
The route "Content with some format" accepted all URLs in the format
``{node}.{@format}`` which lead to duplicate content (if your default
suffix is empty and the user appends ".html") and weird errors (if an
arbitrary extension is added to the path, like "some/path.anything").

Besides this change simplifies the ``FrontendNodeRoutePartHandler`` so
that it does not ignore the ``splitString`` option if no dot could be
found in the request path.

This is a breaking change if you relied on the fact that any format
suffix is accepted by Neos.
If you provide a custom format (for example "ics") you should register
a custom route for it in your package::

  -
    name:  'ICS'
    uriPattern: '{node}.ics'
    defaults:
      '@package':    'TYPO3.Neos'
      '@controller': 'Frontend\\Node'
      '@action':     'show'
      '@format':     'ics'
    routeParts:
      'node':
        handler:     'TYPO3\\Neos\\Routing\\FrontendNodeRoutePartHandler'

* Fixes: `#54187 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54187>`_
* Related: `#54217 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54217>`_
* Related: `#55492 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/55492>`_
* Commit: `437ec25 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/437ec25a5c3ee52b836267e0bf2805b8a253a058>`_

[BUGFIX] YAML indention and typo in integrators cookbook
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e54ba0c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e54ba0c19832567f1a23e45270897c3acce87f59>`_

[TASK] Fix various CGL violations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `274cc0c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/274cc0cfcefa7ac35e83eb227c32f53743a493ff>`_

[BUGFIX] Opacity of datetime editor inspector field
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

After the module styling implementation uneditable fields
were made transparent and this also applied to the date
editor field, but it shouldn't since it's not really
uneditable since it has a wizard.

* Related: `#48091 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/48091>`_
* Commit: `2a6d77b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2a6d77b2a5986671f49fc6c4a82b49786121aeea>`_

[TASK] Add missing grunt-trimtrailingspaces dependency
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes adds a missing dependency to
grunt-trimtrailingspaces in Scripts/package.json

* Fixes: `#56000 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/56000>`_
* Commit: `79f6262 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/79f6262e1a72ef354e9f1fd8e4dd69bafa147d9a>`_

[FEATURE] Reworked MenuImplementation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A new MenuImplementation that has the following additional features:

- Resolves shortcuts, in this case the item.node will be the shortcut
  target and the original shortcut node is available in item.originalNode.
- Corect state calculation.
- New Property itemCollection to set an arbitrary collection of nodes as
  first menu level items.
- New Property renderHiddenInIndex to also render items that should be
  hidden in menus otherwise

* Commit: `ad8129d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ad8129df1a00729c658ac255eb19508dd5a17d7f>`_

[TASK] Minor coding fixes for users management module
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the new action there is multiple usages of assign, this
commit changes this to use assignMultiple instead.

A minor typo in the comment for the action create is fixed.

* Commit: `0f70249 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0f702490a0252ace19b1b2fc42a846a04b9e5835>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove obsolete route that might break routing
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes the frontend route "content with URI suffix and type"
that could break routing in frontend and backend in certain
circumstances.

Background:
This route was meant to support custom rendering formats (similar to
the ``typeNum`` feature in TYPO3 CMS). But apparently this is currently
not used anywhere in the code and the same can be achieved with custom
routes and/or the ``{@format}`` suffix.
Since support for configurable URI suffixes (introduced with
I14c8a98f341fbc312c57fee44cd383271778e57b) it is possible to disable
the ".html" suffix from all Neos routes. But with that change the
route mentioned above incorreclty matches all pages in the second
level (e.g. "foo/bar").

* Fixes: `#55492 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/55492>`_
* Commit: `0c03e9a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0c03e9a7764c6c0e9ec55d02e04c58e6d168a171>`_

[TASK] Fix Page documentation in TS reference
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Additionally add missing Tag and Attributes documentation

* Commit: `9e4d0b5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9e4d0b578259350a097622d7bd94ac135294d7d3>`_

[BUGFIX] Correctly rename site root nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When renaming the ``site root node`` via the Sites management module
the site name was incorrectly used for setting the new root node name
instead of the specified node name.

This change fixes this by mapping the new node name only to the site
when it has been changed.
Besides this cleans up SiteController, Site and the Edit form.

* Fixes: `#53330 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/53330>`_
* Commit: `3ebd0bb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/3ebd0bb1c62faa967210766264b0fe75e54ecd48>`_

[BUGFIX] Menu section collapse arrow styling
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The arrow for the section collapse buttons in the
menu used the wrong font.

Introduced in Ia0bb003a9c41e8fa89a87f17e971e16138e1721a.

* Commit: `3fbd4bc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/3fbd4bc792287fc60685cbac35664413904d3571>`_

[BUGFIX] Headline alignment is not persisted
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aloha sanitize removes the style attribute from headline elements
when a headline is aligned using aloha.

* Fixes: `#54574 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54574>`_
* Commit: `d58d2df <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d58d2df9621d422c46ffa6f7fcd0b245d680ca88>`_

[BUGFIX] Shortcut rendering is broken in combination with layout
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a layout is applied to a shortcut because of a layout set in the
rootpath of the node, then openening the shortcut in the navigate
component fails with a 'Could not read metadata from page'.

This change moves the rendering of the Shortcut from the PrimaryContent
prototype to the root TypoScript case object to fix this.

* Fixes: `#54480 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54480>`_
* Commit: `03b431d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/03b431d2e29dffcb24fd8a9021bdfed5ee72c26e>`_

[BUGFIX] Dateselector should do "previous" too
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The dateselector incorrectly only moves forward
regardless of the arrow clicked, it should go back on the left
arrow and forward on the right arrow.

Credits for finding the broken part go to Thomas Hempel. Thanks!

* Fixes: `#54210 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/54210>`_
* Commit: `25e9112 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/25e9112b9e1841df3dc263dd50e1bf40aea4b7d8>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.SiteKickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Node references do not respect context workspace
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a node referenced as a property it doesn't take the
contexts workspace into account but rather the node's own
workspace resulting in wrong instances being returned in
non live workspaces.

* Commit: `6beabd5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/6beabd5f63ee63351f2cf36a517920cf1ab7d53e>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent database error with too long index
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For MySQL if innodb_large_prefix is set to off from version 5.6
on an index that is longer than the maximum index size is no
longer silently truncated. Instead an error
1071 Specified key was too long; max key length is 767 bytes
can be thrown. In that case you have no way to install Neos in
this environment because of an index created and removed one
version later. As the index is not of much use we should remove
it totally from the past migration files to avoid this error.

This change is not marked breaking, the worst thing that can
happen is that you are exactly on version 20131129110302 and
keep the useless index in your database if you migrate up.
The index is also removed from the PostgreSQL migrations in
order to have both migrations in sync.

For more details see: http://forum.typo3.org/index.php/t/200966/

* Commit: `3b8e898 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/3b8e898b2ec7a9ef087004576043de3e1cada2b2>`_

[BUGFIX] materialize NodeData in removeProperty()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In removeProperty() the underlying NodeData was not materialized as
needed.

* Commit: `a4e3354 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/a4e3354278177bf7143a7fc329ef59e053736cf6>`_

[TASK] Fix wrong hint in method docblock
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The @deprecated notice on __call() pointed to two wrong method names.

* Commit: `4122b9c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/4122b9cf8d3030884511cd8efea90f1ca2a60d12>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] isEven & isOdd not supported in TYPO3.Neos:ContentCollection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e042103 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/e042103df785a4bad943767189fe4c00e1cae263>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

