========================
1.1.0-beta3 (2014-05-26)
========================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/13/

* Commit: `80d3778 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/80d3778d8594136ae2a5edd53b81e7c6f3492059>`_

[TASK] Upgrade PHPUnit to 4.0.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `798a0c5 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/798a0c57628deb7f61098cfa3f6e8db1ffb80814>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/13/

* Commit: `2de7c5c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2de7c5c7d9798882b1dcd188f9d223cd5b80572e>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Neos 1.1.0-beta3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/13/

* Commit: `fde3512 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fde3512599ff88b6131157a0591bbc4802abf1e6>`_

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/13/

* Commit: `23aff86 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/23aff8669780183530e13badf28aff7c6b943cdd>`_

[TASK] Add basic validation for content dimension preset configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds some basic safe guard to the setConfiguration() method which
throws an exception if a non-existing content dimension preset has been
defined as the default preset.

* Commit: `41ebdb3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/41ebdb31e5384123e9f5881f756598b993aa82a9>`_

[TASK] Remove request from context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removed the request from the TypoScript context as with
I9c95bccce0f34dc4d4c9faa85a16b8a36006cd96 the context is added in the
default context to always have the current request in the context.

Needs: I9c95bccce0f34dc4d4c9faa85a16b8a36006cd96

* Commit: `7c9bb2e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7c9bb2ecf84465efeead17e59f6f7bbeb93b2f57>`_

[TASK] Cosmetic changes and clean ups
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As a preparation for the further development of the content dimensions
support, this change contains a few cosmetic changes to existing code.

* Commit: `63061fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/63061fd881d068d2b0e64712f43700b3feb54eba>`_

[TASK] Rename content dimension "locales" to "languages"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change renames the previously introduced content dimension "locales"
to "languages" as "locales" was too unspecific.

If you relied on the name previously, you'll have to adapt your code
accordingly.

Resolves: NEOS-116

* Commit: `9cfa5a7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9cfa5a758cd4581cdea6963bd1774c0357c093be>`_

[FEATURE] uri.module view helper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces an uri.module view helper as counterpart
to the link.module view helper.

* Related: `#58588 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58588>`_

(cherry picked from commit 5d75e38df1422aa74440d74706df10546f718f3b)

* Commit: `c6def10 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c6def106423ef7affb468986e707da740c9371bd>`_

[TASK] Only show images in image media browser
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a second controller next to the MediaBrowserController
to browse only images. This controller is used for the media selection
in the ImageEditor.

(cherry picked from commit 6dd99c0f24844e8073f83cdefef24273bb263b93)

* Commit: `3059839 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/305983912034f3a8bfca68a9b3f7376d5daad577>`_

[TASK] Amend documentation in EditableViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This tries to explain the user the need for correct metadata wrapping
if the ViewHelper is used with a given node.

Also some unused import statements are removed.

(cherry picked from commit f2d0b51630ebccb4fad2769958bf0cf586045a86)

* Commit: `db53aaf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/db53aaf218da02ee95c2bd9d45b4b9759f1272e3>`_

[BUGFIX] Node tree search/filtering incompatible with PHP 5.3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the use of $this inside a Closure it throws an error on PHP 5.3.
To circumvent that problem the class instance is referenced instead.

(cherry picked from commit d8e955c7cdabc9580c352564ab15be890325cd5f)

* Commit: `2e12580 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2e12580b096761561a1eecf95b03e645f7ffeb9d>`_

[TASK] Make items in Breadcrumb prototype an array, not FlowQuery
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The items in a Breadcrumb were a FlowQuery instance. This changes
unwraps the query and makes items a simple array.

That way it is consistent with the other menu types' behavior.

(cherry picked from commit 8c53781a73222b36ffe9ffb51af6457ce72bb944)

* Commit: `246b738 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/246b738eeb794993aa348d8cb738c03bd08fbe83>`_

[BUGFIX] Resolve hardcoded URIs in Backend context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes occurrences of hard coded URIs to
end points, modules etc. This finally enables
using Neos with custom routes or being installed
below a subdirectory.

* Fixes: `#58588 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58588>`_

(cherry picked from commit ad3380e354fd58f2585fc1575a697f7c4e9039b2)

* Commit: `d3dd001 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d3dd0014cfddf0d5467bf4917b41c58ea422b43b>`_

[BUGFIX] Show correct TypoScript path in exception handler messages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change sets the default TypoScript exception handler to
"ThrowingHandler". This way an exception will be re-thrown until it is
handled by a path that has another exception handler configured (e.g.
the NodeWrappingHandler). A new "ContextDependentHandler" is introduced
to switch between HtmlMessageHandler in Development or XmlCommentHandler
in Production. It's configured at the TypoScript root-level to catch
unhandled exceptions.

This way we can show the correct TypoScript path in messages and not
stop at all calls to tsRuntime->render(...) that was handled with
an "HtmlMessageHandler" by default.

(cherry picked from commit fd42bec8edbc641786316ea226a64ab29039a6ed)

* Commit: `eb0fdeb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/eb0fdebd6a77edec7c5513731795be0009e94347>`_

[TASK] Remove duplicate method in reference editor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `4a40bf7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4a40bf795c64456f36f3bee11186288e65666fac>`_

[BUGFIX] Preview of image not matching uploaded image
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When selecting an image for upload a preview is shown,
this upload preview didn't match the selected image
preview shown after upload.

Additionally the solution is made more simple and
removes unnecessary code from the asset editor.

(cherry picked from commit 796d34c5cabbcd1241fd68d9e215f11c9e171cc4)

* Commit: `09d446b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/09d446bfb9ec990114769488e3c704942f7b30cb>`_

[TASK] Implement "cacheLifetime" and "context" FlowQuery operations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Implement FlowQuery operations to get the cache lifetime of nodes in a
content collection. This is done with modular operations that can also
be used when rendering nodes outside of a content collection (e.g.
rendering a list of document nodes with a filter).

Additionally fix a functional test that broke through a Runtime
refactoring.

Resolves: NEOS-69

(cherry picked from commit 87b7739da2969ec64284837beac22f80175a39e7)

* Commit: `dbcefb6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/dbcefb6ab72fdde018296c550a9ab35f287a8ffb>`_

[BUGFIX] Loading indicator when pasting never stops
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When pasting content using the content element handles
the loader never stops and also it's not tied to the
specific element that the paste button was clicked on.

Fixes: NEOS-41

(cherry picked from commit 74c7967c2356187bda7bf9b91ca5167953ce74e4)

* Commit: `31557e5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/31557e5dfb9c93990247aa9ff47c096cf9ba7261>`_

[BUGFIX] Context structure tree not updated when pasting
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: NEOS-84

* Commit: `74d6aaa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/74d6aaad1f5ed2d359f8600531ef623ac26eb945>`_

[BUGFIX] FrontendNodeRoutePartHandler should resolve node by context path
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the FrontendNodeRoutePartHandler ignores node dimensions for
the live workspace, which causes the frontend to fail to render
localized plugins in the frontend that try to render URIs.

* Commit: `784c876 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/784c876e2e3cafa25d56a2becacfbfbae1f569c0>`_

[TASK] Adjust NodeTypes.schema.yaml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the NodeTypes schema to allow all supported headlines in the
aloha format setting.

Besides this removes a left-over "nonEditableOverlay" from the
NodeTypes configuration.

(cherry picked from commit 82dc12478011dd69a3a5ab8aa90ced673046c213)

* Commit: `a419506 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a41950604dd4d039d8ad605c370981147201fd47>`_

[TASK] Small addition to the Developer Guide's "Behat" chapter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e95c456 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e95c456909af5593e13ee56614187845de708ec6>`_

[BUGFIX] Use node full label in Menu and Breadcrumb
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the Menu and Breadcrumb use the NodeInterface::getLabel(). The
label is created by the NodeLabelGeneratorInterface and cropped if
longer than 30 characters. This change use the
NodeInterface:getFullLabel() to display the full label in the menu.

* Commit: `9f877f9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9f877f9116fd15bb9f0166dbfcf27917c0ac04b9>`_

[BUGFIX] Padding for sub headers in create dialog
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add more space around sub-headers in the create new dialog.

* Commit: `1614dd7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1614dd78ad1c39022ed88ec909d67e0d1cb2277d>`_

[FEATURE] Cancel button after selecting image for upload
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Makes it possible to go back after having selected an image
for upload in the image editor without having to unselect and
reselect the element.

* Commit: `9a908e1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9a908e138cc64bc0f5852c8b2241748a219a2e81>`_

[TASK] Hide empty inspector groups
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

An inspector group with no properties should not be shown.

* Resolves: `#58502 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58502>`_

(cherry picked from commit 79bdf24aa07a001e0fc05ce5cf76374f0ba400e1)

* Commit: `5d24559 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5d24559c7251245bc4a8debce5278b792e158dff>`_

[BUGFIX] Wrong arguments for pasteBefore in node actions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit f90419939015e4ab02679cf52eda40ab22dfeccf)

* Commit: `2f8c0b5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2f8c0b54911940b09c3f55498294ff569690407c>`_

[BUGFIX] Position of icons incl. loader in content handles
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 930092be797e698246424a136b98858bd1c89bea)

* Commit: `bd97395 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/bd9739592e9e60f4c96dffb66b7c05ccf86ded80>`_

[BUGFIX] Auto-publish causes connection error loop
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When auto-publishing is enabled a loop of connection
errors occurs due to the controller not allowing an
empty array of nodes.

Fixes: NEOS-113

(cherry picked from commit 6680938cf2af67d86df5ce0ee2cc0cfb84f0495a)

* Commit: `23fb06d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/23fb06d8f4e163accc5026678dc97df23947a90d>`_

[BUGFIX] Discard all workspace command broken
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 578d72dd56e10a18564a9d58ae01e74a22d4285a)

* Commit: `e7f39f8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e7f39f8e9e041c4ca37ccbe93917c4682fcc2c43>`_

[TASK] Replace old syntax Fluid if conditions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 3fffc9b48d6f39c6225cf5988b6c694fdd74fcc8)

* Commit: `c0e24d5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c0e24d5dbc47f6a70392d6ea6ab7aec4eb2da279>`_

[TASK] Code cleanup and CGL violation fixes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Import of FQL namespaces
* Inline type hinting
* CGL violations
* Missing class references
* Minor tweaks

(cherry picked from commit 871166b7cec4bba3772d54ae4695a4772180174c)

* Commit: `3d18790 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/3d187905f81b08cbc6bce47d0df10a307344edad>`_

[FEATURE] Introduce "user:show" command for showing user details
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit adds a new command "user:show" which mainly allows for
checking if a given user exists. If it does, a few user details are
shown, such as username, person name and email address.

* Commit: `185124b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/185124bbe2d506871b6a367f6d28af3309b7fb1f>`_

[TASK] Disable notifications for aborted HttpClient requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When HttpClient requests are aborted it's application logic and
not something we want to display as an error. E.g. when clicking
between image elements before the request finished.

* Commit: `6e2b2b5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6e2b2b59eb7ca230b6474638425f2921033d54c1>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/13/

* Commit: `0c5af9b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/0c5af9b004550552d3311cc781a04748cfa43fdd>`_

[TASK] Remove obsolete "priority" from NodeTypes configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Replaces an occurrence of the deprecated "priority" setting by
"position" in ``NodeTypes.Content.yaml``.

* Commit: `738a8b8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/738a8b8b76db4c92e5e87280b337fe460c2a3afe>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update composer manifest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/13/

* Commit: `3db8c9c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter.git/commit/3db8c9c1adee9e9a500fc4f39edfe754c747f62f>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Nodes copied recursive under circumstances
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The copy of a node leads to recursive copy.
Result is f.e. and endless copy of an image on itself.
This happens because a comparison of objects fails.
I don't know exactly wich property is not equal, but i think it is
the FirstLevelNodeCache, wich is a part of the node context.
I guess, this cache changed during runtime in some circumstances.
So the check is done now by comparison of the node->getIdendifier().

* Resolves: `#58272 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58272>`_
* Commit: `4cdaef6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/4cdaef6fab4b7f4e4df20f2a45b2663a631037f3>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove var_dump() from RenameDimension
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

no comment

(cherry picked from commit 27485a962e4323effb44d310b4ba78af32fa1911)

* Commit: `66a4449 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/66a44496df27cc70c548daf54a5be6447c535d92>`_

[TASK] Adjust to renaming of "locales" dimension to "languages"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Event though TYPO3CR does not specifically support or even know about
the "languages" content dimension in Neos, tests do mention this dimension
for testing purposes. Since "locales" has been renamed to "languages"
in Neos, all occurrences of "locales" have been replaced by
"languages" by this change.

(cherry picked from commit d636e51b964cd9b3daf66fb449da3447f5cc1da6)

* Commit: `da6f228 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/da6f228fa67a0d5b3c8964257c0e79b33765524e>`_

[TASK] Remove support for "locale" context property
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In a previous change, some backwards compatible handling of the "locale"
context property was introduced which set the "locales" content dimension
value accordingly if a "locale" context property was found.

This change removes support for this old context property and silently
ignores it if present.

Background: although the "locale" context property was allowed previously
it never had any effect in terms of Neos' or Flow's behaviour. Supporting
the "locale" context property like we did before this change would
additionally bind TYPO3CR to the Neos content dimension for languages.

Also provides a Node migration to move from locales to languages to keep
existing translations from previous betas:

   ./flow node:migrate 20140516221523

Related: NEOS-116

(cherry picked from commit 53c4a731a9ea45fe201e6b70d358c348d3bed536)

* Commit: `4595f7c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/4595f7c74c3176315cec3fdef296873cc95a74fe>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix findNodeDataInTargetWorkspace to work with shine-through nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes a bug which was the cause that created multiple new nodes of
node variants instead of updating / removing the existing ones. The main issue
here was, that the "findNodeDataInTargetWorkspace" method didn't take the real
node dimensions into account which can be different from the context dimensions
that that method used so far.

(cherry picked from commit d942c972af2fb8eb73dca415b9ce9775a737b7ae)

* Commit: `b3dd79b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/b3dd79b3f20dbb890d94a2263b1675deb599628b>`_

[TASK] Adjust NodeType schema to recent changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Validating the NodeType configuration shows some errors due to the
recently introduced "validation" key.
This adjusts the NodeType YAML schema accordingly.

(cherry picked from commit 86aae7321287758f250af2cb9f2ee55a8d771cfa)

* Commit: `a415225 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/a415225d183990398abec028a6c668f33a511579>`_

[BUGFIX] Make the Behavior test more compatible to custom Setups
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the "iShouldHaveTheFollowingNodes" asserts the properties
to be exactly as specified. Problem is that this can cause the Tests to fail
when custom properties with defaults are added by local Sitepackages.
This change alters that test to assert each specified property to be equal
ignoring additional existing properties.

* Commit: `9118a00 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/9118a00a4d951afb8fa5dbabe12a3c528bbe5f64>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Request in context cannot be serialized
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The request in the TypoScript context cannot be serialized for uncached
segments. This means an uncached TypoScript cannot use the request.
To have the current Request at any time in the context it is injected
together with the default context variables.

Additionally default context objects now come from the object manager
so singleton scope objects are correctly object managed.

(cherry picked from commit 9012e704f0ba605595ea6840b77cf5674194698a)

* Commit: `2d18183 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/2d181835b16bbf969a3387f908dc5aae5c1cc3e8>`_

[TASK] Apply migration TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes-201309111655
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a tweaked version of the ``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes-201309111655``
code migration that break unit tests when applied without changes.

* Commit: `374928b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/374928bc0767e6503556439075dec09606b620ae>`_

[BUGFIX] Context-specific prototype inheritance should work
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Let's imagine you have the following TypoScript::

    prototype(A).value = "Foo"
    prototype(B) < prototype(A)

    myValue.prototype(A).value = "Bar"
    myvalue.element = B

When rendering myvalue/element, we'd expect the "value" property to evaluate
to "Bar", because it has been *overridden* inside myvalue.*

Without this change, this did not work because the prototype inheritance
hierarchy was flattened on toplevel; and not recursively at runtime.

Fixes: NEOS-59

* Commit: `598c8e4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/598c8e4db3736837180876a11517a49b40f30ca4>`_

[TASK] Improve exception handling in TypoScript rendering
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If Fluid object access is used to render TypoScript objects (which is
the default of the generated template in the site kickstarter) and an
exception occurs during rendering, the rendered message should be at the
correct position in the template.

This change adds tests to verify the correct output of exception
messages in different scenarios.

* Commit: `1c58992 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/1c589921cb0557156f8f8b2188b63649b3a0bf40>`_

[TASK] Refactor cache functionality in Runtime
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add a new class RuntimeContentCache that serves as the integration point
between the TypoScript Runtime and the ContentCache. The class holds
all runtime-global state and makes the Runtime implementation much
easier to follow.

* Commit: `0248a41 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/0248a41b32d8a53864ff58ec090be7472f7b3af8>`_

[TASK] Support configurable cache lifetime through TypoScript
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add a @cache.maximumLifetime configuration for _every_ path in
TypoScript. A cached segment will use the minimum of the
maximumLifetime values (from embedded cache segments and itself).

All cached segments have an independent cache entry lifetime.

This allows to render time dependent data (like nodes with
hiddenAfterDateTime or hiddenBeforeDateTime) using additional helpers to
find the relevant lifetimes.

Resolves: NEOS-68

* Commit: `e7436a1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/e7436a16d082aeacf24ad02f9c5d364f1f336b70>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Use fluid container width when logged in
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently parts of the page is hidden behind the inspector
due to a fixed width based on a viewport media query.
Instead it's set to a maximum of that width, although fluid
when logged into the backend. This makes the content element
handles visible all the time.

* Commit: `d677bcd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/d677bcd54ac895c306da9129e527281a985246e0>`_

