==================
1.1.0 (2014-06-19)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/14/

* Commit: `831ac6a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/831ac6a7bc105b1fd346171ae50488613fd4ece5>`_

[TASK] Add ContentCache documentation to the documentation index
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `9e4a688 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9e4a6889fe8f7160f87ae6aeb8447f60a216a078>`_

[TASK] Add Content Cache documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit e43a7d665f2dc7465cd32fe0b6304fc0ce871a7a)

* Commit: `fe01022 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fe01022ad5ecdf28aa3042fac9c6f7f1725f3372>`_

[BUGFIX] Content element wrapping should fail gracefully
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the content element wrapping can't find a node on the
node variable it should return the content instead of
throwing an exception.

This e.g. happens if a TypoScript object like "Text" is
rendered standalone without a Node.

* Commit: `cbd5547 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cbd5547569a91808fc380b1d268578493407f4e1>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Menu state should not be calculated based on a shortcut
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes wrong behavior of menu states, introduced with the refactored
MenuImplementation. Especially behavior of shortcuts pointing to a
subpage of themself showed wrong current states.

This is only breaking compared to the 1.1 branch not to 1.0.
If you need a link to the site root page with correct active state
you shouldn't create a shortcut pointing to it but rather include
the real site root in the menu, by using the itemCollection
property of the Menu TypoScript object.

TypoScript example::

  itemCollection = ${q(site).add(q(site).children('[instanceof TYPO3.Neos:Document]')).get()}

* Commit: `4d186f3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4d186f31e684447a2c4f6d39feacbca5a6d0e736>`_

[BUGFIX] Exception on deleting used Assets
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Referenced Assets (like images) were not checked for usage in
nodes so on next rendering an exception would be thrown
effectively rendering the site unaccessible.
This change prevents deletion of Assets that are still referenced.

Needs: I56f8e922f84c00d9402837591d308583f7069b3f

* Commit: `5e8a849 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5e8a849781e12b56dbd4228d445f6f2e1c1af0a5>`_

[BUGFIX] UserPreferenceController indexAction missing template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The index action in UserPreferenceController is lacking a fluid
template so any call will raise an exception. This was now
changed to return a json representation of the preferences.

Note: it seems at the moment this action is never called in the
Neos backend.

* Commit: `8ed749e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8ed749e876ab6987c155fb604a6b5ba580750d34>`_

[BUGFIX] The site import / export does not handle properties of type array
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The AssetList stores an array of images / assets on a node which are not
exported or imported. This change adds support for importing and exporting
them.

There is still a bug wit serializing the Image objects on persist for which
NEOS-121 is created.

(cherry picked from commit 8b549ef348ddb02083f05672b75cf2a05eb42b55)

* Commit: `d87f928 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d87f928972fe4f259a78f673ffbc0e8dd9bc8240>`_

[TASK] add alignment example for Aloha
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 857965c43534d3cea9a84af3618badabb0ae453e)

* Commit: `869f23d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/869f23d71f54c6463eeab770e5dc016a7b8a78c1>`_

[BUGFIX] Alignment configuration for Aloha editor broken
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It's not possible to use the alignment configuration due to broken
logic in the plugin itself and wrong configuration of Aloha settings.

* Related: `#45020 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/45020>`_
* Commit: `06bdd64 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/06bdd64304383d95a1d66b2d6ccacfd3f41a602c>`_

[BUGFIX] Site import service duplicates image resources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a site is imported multiple time the images in the database
get duplicated.

(cherry picked from commit d9eb89b0c58e9d78ec07d6ca8fe0741fa23d14f3)

* Commit: `fad7b1a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fad7b1a7a244271eac100f383eaf03a767e2d555>`_

[BUGFIX] Content cache should be cleared when discarding changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The WorkspacesController discarded changes by direct calls to the
NodeDataRepository, which is highly discouraged as important signals
will not be emitted by that.

This change updates the controller to use the PublishingService that
will emit the correct signals and does not change behavior.

* Commit: `b1535de <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b1535dea6402d56d87724f74c0a12af53530987e>`_

[BUGFIX] Use NodeNameGenerator to ensure unique node names
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#58428 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58428>`_
* Commit: `81dbdaa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/81dbdaa9b43340c3b3529608c00fd71937a3b252>`_

[BUGFIX] Hide formatting button when no options are available
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When configuring the aloha editor not to have any formatting
options, the selector is still shown although useless. This
makes sure it's hidden if no options are available.

* Related: `#45020 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/45020>`_
* Commit: `46e3a8a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/46e3a8a8a295aa2d8cd71275b8a9b7eb9a47d76a>`_

[BUGFIX] Page tree reloads on every page change
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When not using content dimensions the page tree gets
reloaded on every page change due to a broken check if
there are no content dimensions in the node path.

Introduced in Ic06ff0c679d5a141959c031e3dc296523a8dd2e1

(cherry picked from commit 8ea57cf615ae8b5727ab795f1bb10000b9d5c58d)

* Commit: `da88b25 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/da88b252823d38cfb58b343e98d20eae48a2e1e9>`_

[BUGFIX] Title used in publishing notice relies on page reload
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the title used when publishing relies on the page being
reloaded since it gets the property from the DOM instead of the VIE
entity. This is needed when the title is inline editable.

* Related: `#45020 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/45020>`_

(cherry picked from commit 7a064548cc78348d8c83ac479606384bf02e65c4)

* Commit: `6f68f80 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6f68f80bad8ef8b895434096ad15d1f8bba8e3e4>`_

[TASK] Add generated Eel helper documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add generated documentation for Eel helpers. The documentation can
be generated using the TYPO3.DocTools package with the following
command::

    ./flow reference:render --reference EelHelpers

* Commit: `b93aa8d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b93aa8db941d3a16206a84dcf8f598cda99a644d>`_

[BUGFIX] ConvertUris throws exception with NULL values
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This happens if a node property doesn't have a default
value, but uses the processor on the value.

* Commit: `2fecb39 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2fecb395af6e6401cba993a643a3b8b292a9d43e>`_

[BUGFIX] Find FlowQuery operation returns array with NULL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of returning an empty array the find operation
returns an array with NULL when a child node cannot be found.

* Commit: `d620914 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d620914fdcc1d6c2f305f73f63048e57229467c3>`_

[BUGFIX] Filter operation instanceof only works with node interface
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e6a63bc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e6a63bcdd54bc81c37bd76a4a8e7b608de2e811f>`_

[BUGFIX] Instanceof Fizzle operator only works with nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Neos overwrites the instanceof Fizzle operator behavior
breaking the normal behavior when not dealing with nodes.

Example::

  [image instanceof TYPO3\\Media\\Domain\\Model\\ImageVariant]

* Commit: `15bbadf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/15bbadffd6b2508bdaf65ade3b9a614f37d9b307>`_

[BUGFIX] Asset editor calls server without identifier
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the list of assets allows multiple assets and has
no value set it will send a json encoded empty array
to the asset metadata endpoint. This results in an internal
server error that is thrown to the user without further
reason as we can just remove the loading state.

* Commit: `200acca <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/200acca5795824850907d670f3df7a2817c27c8f>`_

[BUGFIX] Children operation optimization bypasses filters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Additional attribute filters are bypassed when doing early
optimization of filters for the FlowQuery children operation,
limiting the possibilities of the children operation.

* Commit: `6a892fe <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6a892feb5903a9166eb8e44931ad18b05c126c07>`_

[BUGFIX] Inline editable properties re-initialized after publishing
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When publishing changes all inline editable properties are
re-initialized by Aloha in the callback due to the VIE entity
being updated. This causes the cursor to be moved among other
issues. To prevent this we update workspace for the entity silently.

* Related: `#45020 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/45020>`_
* Commit: `ae5e31e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ae5e31ec32f7e478a9d9323d25a81032e16d7972>`_

[BUGFIX] Add correct changelog for TYPO3 Neos 1.1.0-beta3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The automatically created changelog was empty.
This change adds the correct changelog.

* Commit: `ce1af98 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ce1af98c9425a2491055da8936e1d6c0888493d4>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Work around Image serialize bug
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a workaround typoscript object for the AssetList node
type that prevents the related assets from being serialized during the
site import.

Related: NEOS-121

(cherry picked from commit 8089b7b7a34c5a1ac97f414b120fbfc4fc68cf04)

* Commit: `213daf3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/213daf3facb96aa819a6aed40f7047f6fb420b25>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update page TypoScript to match best practice
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The page TypoScript declaration needs to use the correct property
for head javascripts. The includes also had to be declared as an Array
property instead of overriding the complete "javascripts" definition for
further extension.

This change additionally adds the body javascripts as an additional
section to the template for an easier start for the integrator.

(cherry picked from commit 1a577c1ae01d8f6cff19387492e57da50a9f0f6a)

* Commit: `e0df901 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter.git/commit/e0df901083ab0b99f057cb3c6bc02fa60a389fa7>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] createVariantForContext() fails if workspace differs from source
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes a bug with Node::createVariantForContext() which fails
if the specified target workspace differs from the workspace of the
reference node's workspace.

The root cause for this bug is that Node Data objects have been update()d
on every modification regardless if they are new or not. Since most of
the other operations were typically only used on nodes which have been
persisted previously, the bug did not appear. createVariantForContext()
however will create a clone of the reference node if the workspace differs
which causes Repository->update() to fail.

This change also contains some small cosmetic changes and doc comment
improvements related to content dimensions.

* Commit: `0cbda40 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/0cbda4056d76f46381b410c1232731b195fed5e2>`_

[TASK] Method to find entity relations in Node properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Needed to detect linked media assets in nodes. But useful to
find all kinds of related entities.

* Commit: `e036a32 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/e036a324b53990147793740e6ea57c887bd9c121>`_

[TASK] Method to find if a given path exists anywhere in the CR
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#58428 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/58428>`_
* Commit: `4f13698 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/4f136980c2573dec8d35ec03734660cc087c4153>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix three risky unit tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d3cc2b6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/d3cc2b618aa8269319cf784eb9c76f06fba5fd5d>`_

[BUGFIX] Copy into the correct reference node
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A copyAfter() and copyBefore() call will currently first copy the node
into the reference node and then move after it in a second step. This is
not only resource inefficient but also error prone.

* Commit: `890e1cc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/890e1cc63649bb09674964b1d2fd1620488f633b>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] TypoScriptRuntime should not intercept Login redirect
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes changes the TypoScript Runtime to rethrow any Security
exception it encounters. Without this the login redirect does not work.

* Commit: `ea26134 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/ea26134080d5c23fbbc8ff5fa2cd81b06a6dbc6b>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Add the homepage to the main menu
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds the homepage to the menu to show how this can
be done with the following setup:

* Site root contains homepage content
* Homepage should be in main menu without using a shortcut so
  it can have a current state

This is the recommended way to create a menu for this setup
since I4c0a92e3bf068b53c5d0286248feb6e8236894a7

(cherry picked from commit 2413956dafaa6c14ed334be638a77a08dc49f3ff)

* Commit: `118db2b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/118db2b373c69abe62784ab8bf434c33b1666140>`_

[TASK] Add AssetList example element
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit fc96b4b8b63bc595917a3fe56c691d25ff0cb0e0)

* Commit: `2d35059 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/2d35059db06f43f033267fef89797abd879ff4c1>`_

[TASK] Update exported site (fixes duplicate images)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit b5f066943c106546b4ad6cf863cf9b80eb42b9e8)

* Commit: `fc2d037 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/fc2d037bd9e55d0d6a22615f873cfffd713a49a8>`_

[BUGFIX] Use node full label instead of title for chapter pager
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `c029c7c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/c029c7ce83e58c96c6f6eb8035f6b3c4c758e1e4>`_

[TASK] Use new BreadcrumbMenu TS object instead of custom template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the new BreadcrumbMenu TypoScript object in TYPO3.Neos we don't
have to use a custom one for the demo site.

* Commit: `b9fe4da <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/b9fe4da4b8dc0cba00a96aa158cfa8fddf26a001>`_

