==================
1.1.1 (2014-08-26)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/18/

* Commit: `63b3f45 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/63b3f457147bc7a157461a9a3adad39f051d8759>`_

[BUGFIX] Children operation should only work with nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 55c8c74ae90a31148e2f7c71923015de3fb2b2d2)

* Commit: `761c667 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/761c6677587b04961a97bbc7d98d996c180398a4>`_

[TASK] Improve ViewHelper documentation, add reference
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation of the Neos ViewHelpers is amended and fixed with this
changes.

A Neos ViewHelper reference (in an appendix) is added to the
documentation with this change.

* Commit: `d4f9af6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d4f9af6fd753d34efb7bc1b5562d2291a98f792d>`_

[BUGFIX] Inspector Image Cropper should not open if dummy-image is shown
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Else, this is very confusing for users which accidentally open the (empty)
image cropper by clicking on the Neos dummy image

Fixes: NEOS-130
(cherry picked from commit 1882989129db869406be50802a184528e09b1421)

* Commit: `e1608c2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e1608c2439f341ddeb672e05530ac77a95c448b6>`_

[TASK] Add hint for fixing symlinks in Behat testing documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a hint for the user how to fix a possibly
missing symlink in the bin folder as composer does not recreate
this symlink if it gets lost.

(cherry picked from commit c821f9ef8583c4f11eb14f4d81f811a02eaa2116)

* Commit: `54f6009 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/54f6009293bb0c3d7eb8276f646598b960a72ca1>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove neos-contentelement class from page metainformation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The page's metadata wrapper gets the class neos-contentelement set.

This change also makes sure the class attribute is trimmed, which can
be necessary for content collections.

(cherry picked from commit 21812d151cb00e9185cf42f275ed1227a7c33c11)

* Commit: `d227a18 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d227a18079105c9fb69e91d72bb79e2a4f4549c8>`_

[TASK] Change RUBY_VERSION check to match versions > 1.9
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The current check for the RUBY_VERSION only checked if a
1.9 version of Ruby is installed and as such does not work
on 2.0 or higher. This change updates the comparison so it
works for all versions higher than 1.9

* Commit: `bba0be9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/bba0be94a027a39dcca062a0abe61ae07ccc71f1>`_

[TASK] Use primary button styling in Site management
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The button should be blue.

Resolves: NEOS-221

(cherry picked from commit abccf99fbdc6b4ec226a06a0059f7a8012092c40)

* Commit: `a266eb2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a266eb282c10748adfe4321d4bff3ac8ae3b7e57>`_

[TASK] Remove link interception for Aloha floating menu
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Aloha floating menu has been disabled, so there's
no need for intercepting links on that element.

(cherry picked from commit 408517b89f5ca9eec4567cf753b45699542dca0f)

* Commit: `677f7bf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/677f7bf650d2ecfaa7ebcfe7412863b88550a2ce>`_

[BUGFIX] lastVisitedNode should be reset when changing sites
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The lastVisistedNode session variable is always pointing to the
node that was last open in frontend to redirect to that page.
If the node is removed this redirect will lead to a "page not
found" error. This can happen for example if something is
changed in sites management. Therefore changes in sites
management should clear this session variable.

Fixes: NEOS-127

(cherry picked from commit aa059625730c6330ee720fc379f462b1bf55535a)

* Commit: `de2d9af <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/de2d9afe8de710ad1b47863bcbf17a3f2f44838c>`_

[BUGFIX] Throw exception for missing node in editable view helper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This happens when a node is could not be found, but the view helper is
still used. Now a catchable exception is thrown instead.

Fixes: NEOS-328

(cherry picked from commit 7ee3c5c017efcce6662b68ac9f90d19ac145f6a8)

* Commit: `acbc911 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/acbc9111c7ad4eecb1152a94cc86d6e497ab67b3>`_

[TASK] Add missing title attribute for "Toggle context structure"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2f2b134 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2f2b134c4d4ae4c7e219c7081b6a9a64ac33d761>`_

[TASK] Swap some access checks with workspace checks
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change inverts a number of checks for the workspace being not the
live workspace and for access to the TYPO3_Neos_Backend_GeneralAccess
resource.

This makes it possible to render full Neos pages in a CLI context (where
the security framework cannot be initialized) and should speed up things
a tiny bit along the way (by avoiding security checks in case of live
being rendered).

* Commit: `67c35c1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/67c35c1c0267de5c03886a4127830d0f28af09f0>`_

[BUGFIX] Class names missing for setup steps
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `79639db <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/79639db6e02e956a2431c3a1bbcb3289c4a8b0cc>`_

[BUGFIX] Doctrine eventListener registered without key
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Because the Doctrine event listener for the account post
listener is registered without a key, registering another
event listener in another package will result in overwriting
the listener causing undesired side-effects.

* Commit: `be27d9c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/be27d9c619d0c73f7faeaf92f23b871798b771cb>`_

[TASK] Fix code in nodetype examples
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes two typos in the node type examples in the Integrator's
Cookbook.

(cherry picked from commit fdabd851af9c29a5a45431d464d2c7c70fc5bff5)

* Commit: `c460302 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c460302b0b5ef7fd6b4aaeb23454ef00b84ef6bb>`_

[BUGFIX] Clicking outside the body should deselect active element
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a page is shorter than the height of the browser window
and a content element is selected, clicking outside the body
tag doesn't deselect the active content element like it normally
does when clicking outside any content elements.

Fixes: NEOS-207

* Commit: `ee13f4e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ee13f4ec79da96ec116f3921d92d928a360ad973>`_

[BUGFIX] Emptying a collection breaks create new
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a element in a content collection is removed it's
not possible to create new elements without reloading the
page. This happens when there are removed elements in the
collection and it checks if it should insert before one
of them, which fails because they cannot be found.

Fixes: NEOS-182

* Commit: `1ea7916 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1ea7916517261d03308ab88d36c577038f07c524>`_

[BUGFIX] Inline link editor shown when linking is disabled
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When linking is disabled for a inline editable property the
link field is always shown due to the plugin not being updated
when the selection changes.

Fixes: NEOS-261

* Commit: `d0fc5f9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d0fc5f9984ace8e24ef40d924e5a159da3a1eed1>`_

[BUGFIX] NodeSearchService working as before
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the fix of case sensitive like queries merged in Flow
(I53cd80e145eb49bcf8251f0045b9f3ec4fd61105) the NodeSearchService
currently returns wrong results as it cannot properly lowercase
the content of the properties blob field.

As we already discussed this cannot be fixed easily so for now
the NodeSearchService will not attempt to search case insensitive.

This also needs to be backported to all branches that will get the
Flow bugfix.

Fixes: NEOS-267

* Commit: `4cf0019 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4cf00193a2ccdd83d8c9f22919f2ebc6e9db72d3>`_

[TASK] Document missing configuration options for aloha
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: NEOS-263

* Commit: `9b30772 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9b307727f4a48f0bd56e1e052d9801d29c919702>`_

[BUGFIX] Behat Tests are green again
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adapts the behavior tests to the changes in the UI.

Note: The scenario Features/Content/InlineEditing.feature:7 is unstable
because of server communication errors showing up sometimes.

Resolves: NEOS-74

* Commit: `3e11c80 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/3e11c80069c3105c392686f7c447498a1cb19f34>`_

[BUGFIX] Set correct cache mode for ContentCollection by default
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Change the default TypoScript for ContentCollection to make it
cached or embedded depending on the context.

With the power of prototype context dependent TypoScript declarations
we can mitigate the problems when updating to Neos 1.1 or when
new static ContentCollections are created.

The documentation and comments are updated to remove the need for user
action in these cases.

Resolves: NEOS-227

* Commit: `983bc77 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/983bc7716040dcd61fbc359ad6453af53acbd21d>`_

[BUGFIX] Structure tree contains removed nodes after removal
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removing content outside the structure tree does not remove node from
structure tree. This is due to the structure tree being reloaded before
the removal has been saved to the server. To resolve this issue a new
event 'contentSaved' has been introduced to storage.js.
The remove nodeAction listens to the first 'contentSaved' event and
triggers 'contentChanged' afterwards.

* Resolves: `#57839 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57839>`_
* Commit: `9997709 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9997709a5c37fc4ff6bb5a8a7a1c0bbff4cb7107>`_

[BUGFIX] Content element overlay not displayed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes the content element overlay to display properly
over the actual content by getting the full width/height including
padding of content and apply to the overlay.

* Resolves: `#57290 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/57290>`_
* Commit: `6d341c2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6d341c239a6eefb9be10fe2b399e9f8175b3d332>`_

[BUGFIX] `Find` FlowQuery operation breaks with empty context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the `find` operation is used on an empty context an exception
is thrown because the ``canEvaluate`` method will return FALSE.
This happens because there is no fallback operation for `find` and
it can only evaluate if the first context element is a NodeInterface.

Fixes: NEOS-208

* Commit: `2b2e6e5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2b2e6e58e57d5f6a57d278686035706042afd68c>`_

[BUGFIX] Pages created without entering a name should work
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Creating pages wihout entering a name for the new page ended
up in an exception and wrong "null" entry for the page that
was not created. With this change a new page that has got no
name will be "unnamed" automatically and prevent the exception.

Fixes: NEOS-86

* Commit: `22f8db7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/22f8db74d7291329de1ddf37891280e3860655b2>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix small typo in 1.1.0 change log introduction
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `508370e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/508370ef34dfe7e63b1d6c7ff4c8777cfac1e229>`_

[BUGFIX] (Sites Management) Importing site fails if kickstarter is not installed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the site kickstarter is not installed, the "Package Key" and "Site Name" input
fields are not rendered in the "Create Site" dialog. Because they are marked as
required parameters, the following property mapping exception occurs on form submission::

	The bug is 'Required argument "packageKey" is not set.'

This is fixed with this change by marking the arguments as optional.

Fixes: NEOS-128

* Commit: `c26d8c5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c26d8c53c524a960b020b23de34f13b243afb244>`_

[BUGFIX] Secondary Inspector Panel should close on changed node
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Secondary inspector panels are used for additional editors that
do not fit the inspector like the HTML editor or the media
selector. The secondary panel should close when the selected
node changes (for example by changing the page).

* Fixes: `#59452 <http://forge.typo3.org/issues/59452>`_
* Relates: NEOS-124

(cherry picked from commit c30d2f0d797e9639c22092963567274213dfcc81)

* Commit: `e9337e4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e9337e4e8aadb5141087f3c552ab0e261a9ceaea>`_

[TASK] Add cache configuration to documentation example for shared footer
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updates the documentation example for the shared footer to add a missing
content cache configuration.

Resolves: NEOS-132

* Commit: `4c092de <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4c092dedc51a5508199cc05566b93b4755793f84>`_

[TASK] Add release notes to 1.1.0 change log
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8db3614 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8db3614f78fab29f0109b922dbb0274b5fdc642f>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Avoid exception when rendering new asset list element
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A freshly created asset list element contains no assets array, thus a foreach
triggers a notice throwing an exception. This change fixes that by checking for
the assets value being an array before using it.

Resolves: NEOS-229

* Commit: `13c097b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/13c097b7d83b0f32ed0ba6ac276d51081bb89c02>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] ContextFactory does not check dimension configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ContextFactory should check if the given dimension values are
arrays as specified or something else to prevent non meaningful
error messages. The case now produces an exception with a clear
error message stating that the dimension configuration is wrong.

Fixes: NEOS-280

* Commit: `ffc5ec1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/ffc5ec1c748ebcbd0499150b31f4b602c10f46a3>`_

[BUGFIX] Behat Feature works with PHP 5.3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Array Access to an array return from a function is not allowed
in PHP 5.3. It was replaced by a backwards compatible access
to the value.

* Commit: `2131338 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/2131338ba07da38dc924241ff4605d28f92e8b71>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove removed nodes without existing node when publishing
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Nodes that are created and removed in a user workspace were not removed
when publishing them to the live workspace. This can have sideeffects
in the Neos backend where removed nodes are rendered and causes problems
where a changed or removed node type throws exceptions.

This change fixes the problem and provides a migration to remove any of
these removed nodes that stayed in the content repository.

Run the following node migration to remove published nodes that are
removed::

    ./flow node:migrate 20140708120530

Fixes: NEOS-236

* Commit: `8e57b26 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/8e57b26618470277cde6cb5d760e96a05b44b2a7>`_

[TASK] Make properties optional in ContextFactory->create()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since there are defaults and one could already pass an empty array to
ContextFactory->create() this change makes the $contextProperties
argument optional.

* Commit: `b35152a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/b35152ac6b599329e99ae4625a99e9179d1cdca6>`_

[BUGFIX] Danish/Norwegian letters converted incorrect in node name
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Danish/Norwegian letters "Ø/Å" are converted incorrect when the node
title is transliterated into a valid node name. Instead of being
converted to "oe/aa" they are just converted into "o/a".

Fixes: NEOS-170

* Commit: `bcc2efa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/bcc2efa894d2612dde0a5f9ca62c2eaf4fe84495>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Underscore is not allowed as a TypoScript path value
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Furthermore, fixed some comment indentations in the Parser

(cherry picked from commit 0ee12bd3db5f7189531cbc2ff4134d9211c3e674)

* Commit: `199a2bd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/199a2bd391ee3309822e3d4618330dd90ab58374>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Remove unnecessary cache mode configuration for ContentCollection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Depends on I50bc64f3224ef79a5d77e5c9715963515d3d0a02

* Commit: `958c2e0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/958c2e0086321da20df3c7125ace2c9711b5d2da>`_

[TASK] Position YouTube content element video properties uppermost
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b4427a5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/b4427a5a974e8a8548ed436b0528aca6a83c5856>`_

