==================
1.1.3 (2015-03-27)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Pull in stable versions of 3rd party dependencies
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes the minimum-stability setting in the manifest and
instead sets the @dev stability flag on our own packages. This makes
sure only stable releases of 3rd party dependencies are pulled in.

* Commit: `a7f81db <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/a7f81dba3cfc2f05570e31718724ea9812431487>`_

[TASK] Add support metadata to composer.json
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `60bf5f9 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/60bf5f9a27f43e9e2018b3440266eae529cc4073>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/30/

* Commit: `dadd977 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/dadd977a85736250ce5c8560fee0a024386c18ff>`_

[BUGFIX] Editing plugin view breaks with unpublished master node
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a plugin view references a master node that hasn't been published,
an exception occurs because the node cannot be found in the live workspace.

Instead of looking for the master node in the live workspace it should look
in the current workspace and with the current dimensions.

Additionally it prevents breaking if the master node can no longer be found.

Fixes: NEOS-1096

* Commit: `7b37375 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7b37375ea5b5f2abf868e20a4117775cde34d384>`_

[BUGFIX] Disable caching when editing nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In Internet Explorer the response from the backend
when editing a page in the inspector was cached.
This means that changes are not visible and the
editor is forced to reload the backend.
This change tells the browser not to
cache the response.

Resolves: NEOS-1030

* Commit: `bf79147 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/bf791471737b5bf16cf92b84dcb29bdef81f2f68>`_

[BUGFIX] Follow-up for broken strip tags for title in inline delete dialog
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The original bugfix didn't work properly and contained a JS error.

Related: NEOS-1125

* Commit: `1000b2b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1000b2ba89ebfe1a19f4dca1c36f82ead1de9817>`_

[BUGFIX] Improve usability of menu panel button
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit improves the behavior of the neos-menu-button and the
corresponding neos-menu-panel. The menu will now only be opened
on a mouseDown and closed on mouseDown again or on a mouseLeave.

This commit also contains a bugfix preventing ghost clicks on the
neos-menu-button.

Resolves: NEOS-608

* Commit: `f968af4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f968af48a1c353fcb6b94b6eb616b658c68458e0>`_

[BUGFIX] Strip html tags in the inline delete node dialog title
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes the html tags from node label displayed in the confirmation
when deleting a node inline.

Resolves: NEOS-1125

* Commit: `d3792f5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d3792f591b64e3579e416d2eeaf216013c18c76a>`_

[SECURITY][BUGFIX] Editors should not be able to access others’ workspaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity: Low

This is a security fix, to restrict editors from accessing content in workspaces of other
editors.

Note: We consider severity low, due to the following facts:

* You still need an editor account to access any content in workspaces, that are not
  in the live workspace
* Neos currently does not officially support access controls for editors

Fixes: NEOS-960

* Commit: `7df5625 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7df5625a364bb08e36fb4aa73a249fcdbfedd091>`_

[TASK] Generalize release in Documentation/Settings.yml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e3e7d5b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e3e7d5b134c276eba81849190c84570df267b3c7>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix outdated nodetype in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The nodetype TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:AbstractNode has long been renamed
to TYPO3.Neos:Node.

* Commit: `db38651 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/db38651eb52d13aaca1acf18b3e92a459f239636>`_

[TASK] Pin typo3/twitter-bootstrap to 1.0.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Later versions (specifically dev-master) are adjusted to Neos 3.0 so they
won't work with earlier Flow versions.

* Commit: `cedde19 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cedde19f77eb317b133576654dfee0c4c90c0ce4>`_

[BUGFIX] Make FloatValidator JS implementation require correct xregexp
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The xregexp library required was nowhere to be found. This change fixes
that.

* Commit: `fe846c0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fe846c09cfc37d22a4a33c1c7b3ed1b7d07d563f>`_

[TASK] Log exceptions during import to the log
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: NEOS-991

* Commit: `8a97d56 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8a97d5681ed28f23e131be6d648875d64820474e>`_

[BUGFIX] Resource links breaks across HTTP scheme / domain
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a site is accessed through different HTTP schemes (http/https),
the cached content contains links with the first one accessed that
is used for both. Same goes for different domains, if no domains
have been configured for a site. This leads to errors with
cross-origin resource sharing and unexpected behavior.

Fixes: NEOS-852

* Commit: `db2240f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/db2240fed01d1e1e134238c3d3ea5d05de9be843>`_

[BUGFIX] Empty integer values are converted to array by vie
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a node type has a property of type integer without a default
value configured the content element wrapping service wraps an
empty attribute for that property. When vie reads the entity
from the DOM it converts the attribute to an array containing a
list of NaN string values.

Besides converting the value it adds an exception to the
HtmlAugmenter service that will be thrown if invalid attributes
are passed.

Resolves: NEOS-579

* Commit: `b44a033 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b44a033d9d8794f3a18ab34c19b88fa2019b41f6>`_

[BUGFIX] Media button activated across editors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Having multiple properties using instances of either
the image or asset editors, clicking the media browser
button will result in all buttons being shown as active
at the same time. This is prevented by creating separate
instances for each editor.

Fixes: NEOS-756

* Commit: `382537d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/382537d180acc621f55cd78a38637510506645a9>`_

[BUGFIX] Loose domain matching check in menu site list
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `80891a0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/80891a01df420c0e8552b8c7e354d732d0ab7321>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove doubled slashes in site uri for site menu
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the site menu the uri contained doubled slashes, because path had
trailing slash and uri had leading slash. Removed the trailing slash
in path. This only happens for sites with an active domain record.

Resolves: NEOS-450

* Commit: `0393959 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0393959de7be4c9b3d6d859467162171d5a758d5>`_

[BUGFIX] ContentCollection properties cannot be saved
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Without this change, saving ContentCollections results in an endless loop.

Resolves: NEOS-188

* Commit: `8f02c9d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8f02c9d9368aa2b17038c8ee83c27a238aec0da7>`_

[BUGFIX] ContentContextFactory should not instanciate Now
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ContentContextFactory created instances of
\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Utility\\Now which should instead be injected.

This resulted in hard to debug errors and is prevented by
injecting Now into the parent class in TYPO3CR.

Related: NEOS-879

* Commit: `b2fc870 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b2fc870636f49fe5018a7aea3b4d7b5839028cc1>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent unselectable inline editable content
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When deleting all text in inline editable fields, it sometimes
becomes impossible to select the field to insert new text.
This happens because left over empty tags have zero height.

Fixes: NEOS-843

* Commit: `58c5490 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/58c5490d6662e8fb68b4dbb6e86c024bb9162883>`_

[BUGFIX] document reference/references editor with node type restriction
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: NEOS-840

* Commit: `a1f7332 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a1f733211dcc5d57b5e53ec83cf184b4b25390d4>`_

[BUGFIX] Adding custom handlebars.js breaks Neos backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ember should prioritize imported Handlebars over global Handlebars to
allow Neos to use its own version if any other is loaded.

This patch is actually part of newer versions of Ember:

* https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/3910

Fixes: NEOS-301

* Commit: `0a4c4c8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0a4c4c8ae4f3002b86be6afca29c16d2ef415deb>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Serialized image objects cause Doctrine errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A change in the Doctrine Collection package causes an issue with some
serialized image objects. The issue appears in all images inserted as
properties since the change in was introduced. This varies a little
depending on when the package was updated in the installation, but
potentially from July 2014.

The issue is caused by a clean up in Doctrine Collections, because
they renamed ArrayCollection's property ``_elements`` to ``elements``.
Which becomes a problem because we have serialized collections in the
node data properties.

This is a problem because the 1.1 branch has the composer flag
``minimum-stability`` set to ``dev``, resulting in using the version
with the change.

Run ./flow doctrine:migrate to execute the 20141127195800 migration.

Fixes: NEOS-401

* Commit: `3fb4246 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/3fb4246b4faa7eb9c16bf9b08532aec1d408e6e9>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove PHP 5.4 syntax for Neos 1.2 and 1.1 branches
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fix for NEOS-411 introduced PHP 5.4 syntax for short arrays into the
AbstractServiceController.

Related: NEOS-411

* Commit: `721a218 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/721a21816b5a96a4178ac01e3e287ee439eccd1d>`_

[BUGFIX] Uncached PluginView
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Plugins are uncached by default. PluginViews should get the same
caching behavior.

Resolves: NEOS-548

* Commit: `a891262 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a8912620e9708ee29ad117b423a57c740d1f98e9>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust code migration identifier pattern to contain the full timestamp
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously code migrations are expected to have a class name with the
pattern ``Version<YYYYMMDDhhmm>`` and the unique identifier was
determined extracting the last 12 characters of the class name (which
are expected to be the timestamp).

This change adjusts existing code migrations to use the full timestamp in
order to establish the new guideline (note: those migrations still
return the old identifier so that they won't be applied again with a
new identifier).

Related: FLOW-110

* Commit: `dcfdcd3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/dcfdcd349ea5871818eaad4dceacf22ec0ef76df>`_

[BUGFIX] Validation errors empty for service controllers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a validation error is thrown in a service controller
the errorAction tries to output it, but the output is empty
because json_encode cannot handle objects.

Relases: master, 1.2, 1.1
Fixes: NEOS-411

* Commit: `c5841fc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c5841fc9e6dfe345f47935c9caee5b467bea7b27>`_

[BUGFIX] Not inline editable overlay exclude padding
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The overlay added to content elements without inline
editable properties, doesn't fill out all the space
within the outline. This makes it possible to click it,
which shouldn't be possible.

Resolves: NEOS-436

* Commit: `1760cb2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1760cb2892829d2646add49b6e02ea6a5db09f3e>`_

[TASK] Compile CSS using compass 1.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Additionally removes some unused styles.

* Commit: `34846f5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/34846f5f46ee8d79f998752cacfcf85d2de8c9a1>`_

[BUGFIX] Search the node tree loses focus
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the node tree is searched, the focus on the search
field is lost after the results are returned.

This causes the situation where the user hits backspace
and then instead of deleting parts of the search term
the page is navigated back.

Fixes: NEOS-359

* Commit: `755764c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/755764cc7a1d3849da3c79dfb0f952372bf892fd>`_

[TASK] Document custom validator/editor use for node properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Documents the use of custom (JS) validators and editors for the
inspector implemented with https://review.typo3.org/26005.

Resolves: NEOS-223

* Commit: `a4a9705 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a4a97058f70f5cf5cd593075ccc752be3286c2d9>`_

[BUGFIX] Exception for missing site package in sites module
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

An exception is thrown if a site's package cannot be found when
displaying details of a site. Instead a flash message error is
shown.

Fixes: NEOS-380

* Commit: `342f407 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/342f407c32af1b9d6b264a54a3d33d913057817f>`_

[BUGFIX] Class attribute for content elements breaks with arrays
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Using a RawArray for the class attribute on content elements, an error
is thrown for not being able to convert array to string. This happens
because the node type processor tries to append to the value, which
doesn't work in case it's an array.

Fixes: NEOS-315
Fixes: NEOS-513

* Commit: `6409c16 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6409c16ee006abe523cd388fe90b087297f9eec4>`_

[BUGFIX] Table options not visible for inline editable properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The table options in the inspector for inline editable properties
are not shown. This is due to a change that skipped all properties
that weren't available in the available data for the node.

Additionally adds a icon for the node type and removes empty editors.

Fixes: NEOS-586

Related: Iddc86edb51df20f1c72e280f8571b918a09af0f6

* Commit: `a40ab9d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a40ab9d6be6b212bf5a88ea7d0ae6d993ddb425a>`_

[BUGFIX] Editor options not merged recursively
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the editor options from different configuration
sources is merged, it only merged on the first level.
Now the merging is recursiv, which is needed for certain
inspector property editors.

(cherry picked from commit 6286244c58d3015bad9e93eb95adf9807ace83be)

* Commit: `2d637d3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2d637d39d74cbf141ec72d636fb5a627de67b13f>`_

[BUGFIX] Hostname validator produces false negatives
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The regex used in the hostname validator produced false negatives.
The commit changes the regex and adds a unit test with commom
test cases.

Fixes: NEOS-475

* Commit: `8d4af2c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8d4af2c43dcea871190c63c20ab75d0bfa21ff14>`_

[TASK] Missing compiled css for chosen-sprite@2x.png 404
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I8adec20848fbec84eb00ac397825a46396b834f0 was missing some
compiled css to work in all places.

Related: NEOS-149

* Commit: `a2372fa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a2372fa0bd3692797b1a5b0c25e0405420e00441>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix 404 on loading the chosen-sprite@2x.png background image
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: NEOS-149

* Commit: `9a9b63d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9a9b63d277cc0b387d72771e3d220fbfb0219776>`_

[BUGFIX] Use the original image in the image inspector editor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: NEOS-416

* Commit: `8268a32 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8268a322a3ddcfdfa9b90f404ea4fe0ecd9c0c44>`_

[BUGFIX] NodeController deals with unneeded context information
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The NodeController set context properties depending on the backend
access of the current user. This is unnecessary as the
NodeConverter already takes care of that. Only thing the
NodeController needs to take care for is to redirect to login if the
requested Node is not in live workspace and the user has no access
to the backend.

Resolves: NEOS-246

* Commit: `7059e40 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7059e4067b76a21a54c577f272a78cbb8fdf0931>`_

[BUGFIX] Menu item attributes should have access to item in context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change updates the Fluid templates for menu rendering to pass
the item variable to the attributes rendering.

Resolves: NEOS-276

* Commit: `61e2dc4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/61e2dc4c0d51f4fcbe71b27e89b012ab6986cd3f>`_

[BUGFIX] Error action not allowed for service controllers
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: NEOS-410

* Commit: `45a8419 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/45a8419e6fe2a34a2cbc0d4ac0973eb687827125>`_

[BUGFIX] Breadcrumb in Inspector has one element too much
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: NEOS-123
(cherry picked from commit f99315383a996afbe835b4d40541ccac20c5f675)

* Commit: `e10b3fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e10b3fd70b8b76e535a56127d8f2f5e6a5c6c2dd>`_

[BUGFIX] Default value not used in structure tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When you create a node from the content structure tree it loses the title.
The default title of the node should be always the title for the structure tree.
Before the node is rendered in the structure tree there should be shown "Loading".

Fixes: NEOS-82

* Commit: `ad8668e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ad8668e496f43686667aaf5c4805c3dab5baf466>`_

[BUGFIX] FlowQuery find operation on multiple nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Now the find operation finds descendants for all given nodes in the
context. This could lead to more results than before if the FlowQuery
context contains more than one node.

Fixes: NEOS-430

* Commit: `cb55644 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cb5564494006a7ed7b3ac111fa6f5133d1eb865c>`_

[BUGFIX] NumberRangeValidator shows incorrect message
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes the issue where the NumberRangeValidator evaluated every
number as invalid.
Fixes the issue where wrong feedback was given depending on the
input type.
Removes the check for the empty value as it wasn't working and
that is actually a different validation.

Resolves: NEOS-477

* Commit: `6cbe844 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6cbe844b76c380edf65a0ffb22c8d5fb50892f14>`_

[TASK] Use more specific entry tag for cached ContentCollection
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Change Ida9227b1d0731ab48ad7dd6c446b6a771f76ff67 introduced a new cache
tag to publish new ContentCollection when creating new documents.
The additional tag can be restricted to just the ContentCollection node
for less flushing on changes to descendant nodes of the parent document.

Related: NEOS-339

* Commit: `6b4ac14 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6b4ac14d0b5dc1b4fcd1f8eae21c6278bbbad9e8>`_

[BUGFIX] Incorrect documentation for external JavaScript events
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: NEOS-406

* Commit: `0377e1d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0377e1d017a713c4153a3556b28452eec0a345de>`_

[BUGFIX] Inline editable properties outline doubled
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression was introduced in I455ad1b431882930e2f422095ccab73b807215b8,
causing a double outline for inline properties inside content elements
that weren't active.

* Commit: `c30d059 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c30d059c029d25fb13b3b933b3462f86268937c0>`_

[FEATURE] Allow asset import during site:import
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The site:export would export Assets just fine, but during site:import
an error would be thrown.

This changes adds AssetInterface import capability to the
SiteImportService so an exported site can be imported again.

* Commit: `ceabf5f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ceabf5fef4379c59cdfd1dd96019defae4634905>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Unable to select the Menu if it's empty
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change add a message "The menu is empty" only in the backend
context, so the user know that the menu is empty, and can select the
content element to configure it.

Resolves: NEOS-1124

* Commit: `bae209c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/bae209cf61d69212557128c476d3cf5fd23e4253>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust remaining code migration identifier
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is another follow-up for I3dc57f55ba052bee2399ba5b97e5f985fd0a4e3a
that fixes the identifier for a code migration.
Besides this contains the corresponding "Migration" footers so that
migrations won't be applied again.

Related: FLOW-110

* Commit: `b0f20bf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/b0f20bfcb5049dc13bbacc3859ebce44896465fb>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust remaining code migration identifier
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a follow-up for I3dc57f55ba052bee2399ba5b97e5f985fd0a4e3a that
adjusts a remaining code migration that has been left out in the previous
commit.

Related: FLOW-110

* Commit: `919f413 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/919f413081871a86d65647c0ee7ab0450d0ae4e9>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust code migration identifier pattern to contain the full timestamp
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously code migrations are expected to have a class name with the
pattern ``Version<YYYYMMDDhhmm>`` and the unique identifier was
determined extracting the last 12 characters of the class name (which
are expected to be the timestamp).

This change adjusts existing code migrations to use the full timestamp in
order to establish the new guideline (note: those migrations still
return the old identifier so that they won't be applied again with a
new identifier).

Related: FLOW-110

* Commit: `5c15c48 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/5c15c48d9a9feb7e209141e860936e0e97f8990a>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix a spelling error in NodeTypes.Content.yaml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: NEOS-503

* Commit: `6b30c43 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/6b30c43c3dd502da801fbcbb84b2e74eeeb3962e>`_

[BUGFIX] Menu item attributes should have access to item in context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change updates the Fluid template for menu rendering to pass
the item variable to the attributes rendering.

Resolves: NEOS-276

* Commit: `dc92427 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/dc924272c77b212dc7fe894bb12dfe3eef45fd38>`_

[BUGFIX] Paragraph formatting available in headline elements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: NEOS-415

* Commit: `26626ae <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/26626ae82bc70db18e27f246a75b79081e7c8312>`_

[BUGFIX] Incorrect indentation for document properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `445575a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/445575a115d3775922672dd514d5ef3d560166e6>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Pin typo3/kickstart to 2.2.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure a version of the package is installed that matches the
framework dependency.

* Commit: `dfcb569 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter.git/commit/dfcb5697052c602c0ce3d0e26bac29a1cd57226d>`_

[BUGFIX] Make special characters in sitename possible
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using special charcters in the sitename while
creating a new site with the kickstarter the generated
site.xml is rendered broken.

Resolves: NEOS-493

* Commit: `36d4363 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter.git/commit/36d43635810fd7b86a22680def5f70c72ac4b5fb>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] RenameDimension transformation keeps existing dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The RenameDimension transformation was destructive for other existing
dimensions, so executing a migration with this transformation twice
would result in a broken state.

Fixes: NEOS-926

* Commit: `c949bf5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/c949bf5244cdbf62999aa2a28ae7d7e389c05bf9>`_

[BUGFIX] Exception when setting a node's path if it's unchanged
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents an exception caused by checking for other nodes with the same
path and finding itself, when the path is set to the existing path.
This can happen through the node converter e.g.

* Commit: `25400e3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/25400e3e37985ecb51ff9ac693cf55128b237f3c>`_

Revert "[!!!][BUGFIX] Fix unique constraint for workspace/dimensions"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts commit 01ae5275445c3812b1f4550e90cb8aef57e15806.

* Commit: `69d45d5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/69d45d55bf480d744c403b0a9778ab73a1278dee>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Fix unique constraint for workspace/dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Run ``./flow doctrine migrate`` to adjust the database.

The unique constraint https://review.typo3.org/36845 added lacked the
movedto column and broke shadow nodes.

This is breaking if you were unlucky enough to migrate between the merge
of the the aforementioned change and this very change. In that case, drop
the wrong constraint::

  DROP INDEX UNIQ_60A956B9772E836A8D94001992F8FB01 ON typo3_typo3cr_domain_model_nodedata -- MySQL
  DROP INDEX UNIQ_60A956B9772E836A8D94001992F8FB01 -- PostgreSQL

and then run this for MySQL::

  ./flow doctrine:migrationversion --version 20150211181736 --delete
  ./flow doctrine:migrate

and this for PostgreSQL::

  ./flow doctrine:migrationversion --version 20150211181737 --delete
  ./flow doctrine:migrate

Related: NEOS-1002

* Commit: `01ae527 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/01ae5275445c3812b1f4550e90cb8aef57e15806>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Node data identifier not unique for workspace/dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Run ``./flow doctrine migrate`` to adjust the database.

This prevents a node duplicate identifier in the same workspace with
the same dimensions, by adding a constraint across identifier,
workspace and dimensions. Without it unexpected behavior can occur
when finding nodes by their identifier, e.g. used for references and
links.

Fixes: NEOS-1002

* Commit: `e7e1292 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/e7e129243a34482a38422e5b003b2b5a067b53c3>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix broken ``ContextFactoryTest`` & ``ContextTest``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes two broken tests, which break due to the unit tests not
automatically injecting lazy properties.

``ContextFactoryTest::createMergesDefaultPropertiesBeforeSettingAnInstanceByIdentifier``
``ContextTest::getCurrentDateTimeReturnsACurrentDateAndTime``

Related: NEOS-879

* Commit: `5f501a7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/5f501a7e1f813972f3e99099297f34b4c3f8b245>`_

[BUGFIX] Now should not be instanciated
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the ContextFactory creates new instances of
\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Utility\\Now which results in multiple context instances
despite having the same context properties.

This led to hard to debug errors that could happen randomly.
By injecting Now from the ObjectManager these problems are prevented.

Resolves: NEOS-879

* Commit: `fcd9110 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/fcd91105ba8b271f28b1fdbbab9f6ceeb6725e84>`_

[BUGFIX] Node type migration filter's ``withSubTypes`` option broken
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The node type node migration filter's ```withSubTypes`` option breaks
for unstructured nodes.

* Commit: `f9913f0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/f9913f080711d5604b11252ad6b802efd8ae83a9>`_

[BUGFIX] UnitTest adapted to change in NodeData::createSingleNodeData
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The change I5945de459b8564d67698e189e956ed93664d2ac6 introduced a
regression in this UnitTest as the call structure changed.

* Commit: `83a5b3d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/83a5b3ddc34bacf210339077ece43bd5a8e92075>`_

[BUGFIX] Node type set afterwards leads to race conditions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When creating new node data instances, the node type is set
after the initial persisting which can lead to race conditions.
Problem is that doctrine executes update statements in specific
order. Then when querying the node data repository in the same
request the query might fire before the update, causing the
new node not to be found.

Fixes: NEOS-355

* Commit: `a60ee95 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/a60ee9549848472e0d07ac2cd8e50b844595cd53>`_

[BUGFIX] Default value support for internal node data properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes setting default values for internal node data (_*) properties.
Before setting a default value meant that it would end up being set in
the property array with the prefixed key never to be used again.

Fixes: NEOS-169

* Commit: `656d72c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/656d72cface220f7fab21254c0a386ff536e6d41>`_

[BUGFIX] Changing node types uses custom logic for default properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This patch refactors the NodeService so creation and
changes to content nodes uses the same logic for getting
default values for properties.

Fixes: NEOS-286

* Commit: `87329ad <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/87329ad68ddc6759344561bd534cae93179cf1fb>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fix parse errors with TypoScript comments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit fixes problems with parsing "comments in comments" in TypoScript

Example::

    # */ text meant as comment

Adds a unit test and a fixture that reproduces the parsing error.
Adds a unit test for the split pattern used to identify the "type of comment".
Refactors unit test for the TypoScript parser.

Resolves: NEOS-864

* Commit: `d290814 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/d290814939bee1adc9c8423020d0310889ca65a4>`_

[BUGFIX] Runtime needs to reset context if it was overriden
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Context overrides were just popped off the stack at the end of
the ``evaluateInteral`` method, but need to be removed always
before returning if override happened.

* Commit: `527c738 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/527c738c8379bd868f9199dbfb825a75a594507a>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Pin typo3/imagine dependency to 1.1.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

After 1.1 the typo3/imagine package was adjusted to Flow 3.

* Commit: `0e703bb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/0e703bb7cf0929153e95f4c5f1d8c582bd27a88b>`_

[TASK] Remove unclosed li element in tags list
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2bbfc25 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/2bbfc25759b54d612ce9bf6f4c8faa581658dade>`_

[BUGFIX] ImageVariant processing instructions ignored for thumbnails
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the getThumbnail method on a image variant is called, the image
variant's processing instructions are ignored.

When creating a thumbnail for a image variant it doesn't make sense
to show the original image's thumbnail instead, if that is desired
that can easily be achieved.

Fixes: NEOS-386

* Commit: `5347b89 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/5347b891fd8b4edf000a795fcfdc5774bbc20e24>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Remove paragraph formatting in headline element
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The paragraph formatting in headline element should be removed by
default in TYPO3.Neos.NodeType package.

Related: NEOS-415

* Commit: `67e906e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/67e906eaee9abb95212889c2d6b3e3011c66a8a5>`_

