==================
1.1.4 (2015-04-17)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] `composer.json` includes development versions in stable releases
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In `Idddd184af48f6d32b995e8d224a7e237aaee84bd` the requirements for
branch tip versions were introduced to easy development, however that
had a bad side effect causing the stable releases to pull unstable
versions of packages.

To fix this the release scripts are adjusted to work with dependencies
on development branch versions.

Fixes: NEOS-1216
Depends: I791174633d2b1b0fb7263504744901d87bbb1ec6

* Commit: `16f847d <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/16f847d95bfb04833f2c84885654796ab5c2fcd9>`_

[TASK] Pull in stable versions of 3rd party dependencies (again)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

During the release of 1.1.3 the dependencies were changed back to
the stable releases, however that should only be for the tagged
versions.

* Commit: `83daa4c <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/83daa4cc16886e9d7e7e312625feb2a20392189a>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/40/

* Commit: `fb831d3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fb831d39d1d9915c143429ae3eda2414da176427>`_

[BUGFIX] Version upgrades leads to a broken backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Existing users experience a broken backend between Neos upgrades due to
the backend resources being cached in their browser.

To prevent this problem a bust header is added to the resource paths,
based on the Javascript & CSS built files when using the minified
versions.

Fixes: NEOS-1202

* Commit: `9d06cf2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9d06cf2bedfa8c865278ee6d1fa9b42dda889d46>`_

[BUGFIX] Updating page in node tree can lead to problems
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a page is being edited in the node tree and the url is changed
on the server side, the link in the tree is out of sync.

Additionally if the title of the current page is changed, the page
is not reloaded.

To prevent these situations the URL of the node in the tree is updated,
as well as the title and if it's the current page it's reloaded automatically.

Fixes: NEOS-1197

* Commit: `a7a495a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a7a495aada9558010f729be4f010f0057d2cec36>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent unnecessary double persist when updating node in tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a node is being edited in one of the tres in the navigate component,
the inline element is synchronized causing an additional update call to
the server. This call is unnecessary since that state has already been saved.

Fixes: NEOS-1196

* Commit: `be7e13e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/be7e13e3f250616e41142e3b847c66321511bb67>`_

[TASK] Add missing icon for plugin view
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The plugin view content element doesn't have a default
icon and therefore uses the fallback icon. This is not
helpful since the element cannot be recognized easily.

Even though plugins have the same icon by default it's
still better since that would relate them. Additionally
most plugins would a specific icon instead of the default.

* Commit: `180daaa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/180daaa33b2af13841b361ea36222c46fbcc3fb6>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow overriding ArgumentNamespace for plugins
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently it is not possible to set a plugin ``argumentNamespace``
from TypoScript as the order of resolution will always result in an
early return because the NodeType will be resolved.
This fixes the resolution order.

Fixes: NEOS-1097

* Commit: `0e5dba0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0e5dba0e4738297835554593f85407bcb0da2663>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Menu content element breaks without items
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression introduced in `I472f502b59ee538305e06d4635ea0a91d615e2b9`
caused the menu content element to throw an exception since the
backport of the change didn't account for the change of the
security view helper.

Related: NEOS-1124

* Commit: `da8e7e6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/da8e7e605709dd001520d7eed5f7064052ef227f>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Adjust Behat tests to work with PHP 5.4+
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `cb5dd68 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/cb5dd68fe2c931974f58b8e089e911611aabda63>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Adjust code migration identifier pattern to contain the full timestamp
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously code migrations are expected to have a class name with the
pattern ``Version<YYYYMMDDhhmm>`` and the unique identifier was
determined extracting the last 12 characters of the class name (which
are expected to be the timestamp).

This change adjusts existing code migrations to return the old identifier
so that they won't be applied again.

Related: FLOW-110

* Commit: `f6eb26d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/f6eb26dfd0dfe7e030e63a2de40ff70686c19842>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

