==================
1.1.5 (2015-05-30)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Revert composer manifest to dev versions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/53/

* Commit: `f14df88 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/f14df88857c63c6c0ee26d70c195d8dd9677e9ec>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest for 1.1.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/53/

* Commit: `f86e68f <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/f86e68f2d0c26e57ee5b1e2bad3cdc5cbc15c9aa>`_

[BUGFIX] Pin doctrine/migrations to tagged working version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With doctrine/migrations not having had a stable branch for years,
Flow always required dev-master. Now that conflicts with the version
of doctrine/orm used with Flow 2.x, so we need to pin the required
version to the last known working state.

Unfortunately this needs to be repeated in the root manifest.

Related: FLOW-300

* Commit: `ed7dee0 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/ed7dee0891f2b3431b30bab07e7331983507b949>`_

[TASK] Revert composer manifest to dev versions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/40/

* Commit: `c0df045 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/c0df04512791329a4a638fa95fcd8100074c3f30>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Neos 1.1.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/53/

* Commit: `d701046 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d701046d90d4d246fbdfaad69a3e11b6425a0ef2>`_

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/53/

* Commit: `9a5eb87 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9a5eb87c085c63cc9013ffcdfec1311e2cd32885>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove illegal character from ContentModuleBootstrap.js
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This character leads to a javascript error 'unexpected identifier'
while loading the unminified sources.

* Commit: `41bf2bf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/41bf2bf2667c6b052c77d011f523c0017d162597>`_

[BUGFIX] Fetch external fonts via HTTPS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the Login and Error Views of Neos include Google fonts via
HTTP leading to ``Mixed Content`` errors when accessing the site over
HTTPS.

This patch adjusts ``Error.scss`` and ``Login.scss`` accordingly.

Note: We don't use protocol relative URLs by intention, because those
are deprecated for security reasons.

Fixes: NEOS-1100

* Commit: `8706203 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8706203972d9377579fec72253dbe3ef74ad611b>`_

[BUGFIX] Shortcut resolves to first node instead of sibling
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Shortcuts pointing to the first child node resolves to the next
sibling of the current page when navigating the child pages of the
shortcut. This happens because the child nodes are fetched from the
first level node cache, which can have a array pointer that has been
moved.

Fixes: NEOS-1220

* Commit: `c3744b4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c3744b45bdfca1a0165ef1176719a50104d412c2>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fix spelling error in error message
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: FLOW-112

* Commit: `f87fd23 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/f87fd23a06e512eb4b0881de049ea92b39422406>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

