====================
1.1.6
====================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Revert composer manifest to dev versions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/54/

* Commit: `eac83da <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/eac83daed959bb97cda69a69dd3c03462847919b>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/56/

* Commit: `c5fb0d8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c5fb0d8d8ee2ce7a48abdfb0d2f4f1fdd4ebc948>`_

[BUGFIX] Aloha configuration gets applied to nested properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjust selector for applying Aloha configuration, to only match
those properties that belong to the same node and not descendants of
nested node's wrapping.

Resolves: NEOS-1316

* Commit: `73d8ece <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/73d8ece1f77193123be01a959ac5f7e2c4773cbf>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix wrong cache invalidation message
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The message for a DescendantOf_* tag referred to a wrong node, this is
fixed by this change.

* Commit: `42bd9f5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/42bd9f59a5210ac196d52ce5af1e2cb2ddf09cae>`_

[TASK] Revert "Add changelog for TYPO3 Neos 1.1.4"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts commit d701046d90d4d246fbdfaad69a3e11b6425a0ef2. It
was created by trying to release 1.1.4 a second time and contains
changes that actually went into 1.1.5.

* Commit: `e04d838 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e04d83834b768a777f193f1b52c3d0e3951de5fb>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent syntax error for backend in latest stable Chrome
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to a bug in the recent stable version of Chrome the backend breaks
occasionally when initalizing. This only happens when using the minified
JavaScript build. The bug is caused by a non UTF-8 unicode character
in the CodeMirror library using a UTF-16 character, which causes the
bug in Chrome.

Updating CodeMirror to the latest minor version of 3.* fixes the issue,
which is a good idea in any case.
The issue is already fixed in Chrome, however it may take a while for a new
stable version to be rolled out.

Fixes: NEOS-1312

* Commit: `5adb925 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5adb9254f7738d464b40bd0e56c5985530d9cad2>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

