==================
1.1.7 (2015-07-02)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Require specific version of ``TYPO3.Form``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `abdaf31 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/abdaf3136e5b93cc358e9ce91511cb248b2addbc>`_

[TASK] Revert composer manifest to dev versions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/56/

* Commit: `3f04299 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/3f04299e7dc3ecfd877ace291b9e82c3009d3a26>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://jenkins.neos.io/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/59/

* Commit: `f75db61 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f75db6144184a41ad3e1aea8dcde1ce1a755dd04>`_

[BUGFIX] Support negated instanceof FlowQuery filter operation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression introduced in another fix with the change
``Icce97f6e0f210353f5123edd4f8c5a868f7134ea`` lead to incorrect
matching of negated instanceof filters for node types.

Related: NEOS-1348

* Commit: `95e87d1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/95e87d1cfd8e277a7df4cb10131a39fd44e465a9>`_

[BUGFIX] Support multiple filters in FlowQuery children operation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to incorrect handling of multiple Fizzle filters in the custom
optimization in the FlowQuery children operation, multiple filters
give incorrect results. Instead now all filters are taken into
account and optimized individually if possible.

Fixes: NEOS-1348

* Commit: `f417108 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f417108d9043848d41fec46496dd2fc8940dc4a7>`_

[BUGFIX] ``PluginViews`` with error messages can be selected in backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If an error occurred inside a plugin view element the message was
rendered as plain text without any wrap. Because of that the item could
not be selected in the backend any more.

The solution is to wrap the message in a p-tag for as it is already
done if the ``PluginView`` is not configured at all.

Fixes: NEOS-1322

* Commit: `bb6e5b7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/bb6e5b705442fa34b8cbe11d6261c33e17858ef5>`_

[TASK] Adjust TYPO3 Neos to just Neos in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the documentation–where it makes sense–to use just Neos
instead of TYPO3 Neos.

Changelogs and release notes have been left unchanged since they should
be "historically correct".

* Commit: `f2500d7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f2500d793917bc8021702d7f9df7729e47b5ef78>`_

[TASK] Show version and release in front matter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `7352ce2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7352ce2fc859e4a5bcd4fd0003a21c00cc75ccd6>`_

[TASK] Exclude changelogs from PDF rendering
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This saves some 600+ pages in the generated PDF, cutting down on the
time needed to render, download, ... it.

* Commit: `a9674de <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a9674de89d8a7bc2565dc637d53d39ec83e04395>`_

[TASK] Rename Index.rst to index.rst
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is our workaround for an issue with rtfd.org so the documentation
can be browsed when it has been rendered there.

(See https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/1279 for details.)

* Commit: `4953c0b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4953c0b18d5c57357213c1c77f54f5371853268e>`_

[TASK] Switch to plain Sphinx build configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Switches to a more standard setup for rendering rST using Sphinx. A
simple ``make html`` renders the documentation, if sphinx is installed.

The ``conf.py`` contains a tweak to allow using the RTD theme without
confusing the renderer over at RDT itself.

* Commit: `f783e90 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f783e908874ab60f1394b8f6c1bc208ae7d4309e>`_

[TASK] Add date to titles for 1.1.5 & 1.1.6 change logs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `08f1fa9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/08f1fa9a7ef3187294a101c387080dff3743965b>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Overriding ``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes`` node types not working
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to missing dependency on the ``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes`` package,
the multi column overriding didn't work correctly.

* Commit: `1d954d5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/1d954d5b2a694d8a4a55c8ef05f9d1ae2944ec0e>`_

