========================
1.2.0-beta3 (2014-12-03)
========================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/22/

* Commit: `77a96e9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/77a96e9df36c6f0c7b07dbe65fca54f05383c830>`_

[BUGFIX] Only process node arguments with matching format in route cache
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevent errors caused by custom node arguments not having the correct
format needed to extract the identifier.

Resolves: NEOS-556

* Commit: `2cbfe47 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2cbfe473a1fa7320298dac000fffedc2379acd1b>`_

[TASK] Use real UriBuilder in functional RenderingTest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The use of a mocked UriBuilder broke when using the UriBuilder using
chained calls, as only `reset()` returned the mock and any other calls
did not. This lead to "method call on a non-object" errors.

* Commit: `8a268f3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8a268f340806523999fdf054342c5ebeb49690a1>`_

[BUGFIX] document reference/references editor with node type restriction
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: NEOS-840

* Commit: `f795e8e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f795e8edddda95960ba8c639999628cdca0eb432>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent unselectable inline editable content
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When deleting all text in inline editable fields, it sometimes
becomes impossible to select the field to insert new text.
This happens because left over empty tags have zero height.

Fixes: NEOS-843

* Commit: `b09a3c6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b09a3c683e0d387b34b1cd4ba9378554fcc54131>`_

[TASK] Cache first online site and active domain in memory
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: NEOS-572

* Commit: `1bd5c28 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1bd5c28dbe0ce1f13e1771d19a8b713b7d1a56be>`_

[TASK] Change icon of content collections
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 402d335521c3bb73c6387fbab628295be63f8d9c)

* Commit: `f9e08b1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f9e08b114285c403f02ae0ddd68d5e75f1192f7d>`_

[BUGFIX] Adding custom handlebars.js breaks Neos backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ember should prioritize imported Handlebars over global Handlebars to
allow Neos to use its own version if any other is loaded.

This patch is actually part of newer versions of Ember:

* https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/pull/3910

Fixes: NEOS-301

* Commit: `634582f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/634582f8ae1306bedcb6a5865bbcbb97f6373ff2>`_

[BUGFIX] Skip unnecessary time screen in DateTime inspector editor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When no minutes or seconds exists in the date format, the minute screen
should be skipped entirely.

Fixes: NEOS-577

* Commit: `418fa7e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/418fa7ec5b80e075b239e13e4a549d602d7826fa>`_

[BUGFIX] Respect inactive state for domains
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a domain is inactive the domain will not be used for determining the
active site. This means that when requesting an inactive domain the
default site will be shown instead, as if the domain hasn't been
configured.

Previously the domain state wasn't taken into account at all meaning
that inactive domains would still match their respective site.

Fixes: NEOS-181

* Commit: `e9fbe92 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e9fbe9260348c889d6aaac8c8f61a9e16582861c>`_

[TASK] Display warning when an error occurs while saving
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Implements a modal dialog which warns the editor when
an error occurs while saving content changes. The dialog
offers the opportunity to reload the current page in an
attempt to fix the problem.

Related: NEOS-346

* Commit: `0e9dd9f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0e9dd9f75c7e3b90b69a142713b3f197c6ca7514>`_

[BUGFIX] Node search service needs to consider node dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Use the NodeDataRepository to do the properties search to have a
proper workspace and dimension behavior.

Fixes: NEOS-824

* Commit: `f2551cd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f2551cdcaa3fe79fffcdbd60eb936e1a24d3c78d>`_

[TASK] Login dialog improvements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents the login dialog from being duplicated if multiple request
were restricted.

Also streamlines the styling with the normal login by moving
the failed login message below the form, introducing a shake effect
on failed login.

Additionally indication of a login is in progress is added to the
normal login as well as the dialog login.

Furthermore fixes the login dialog to use native form validation in
the form of required fields.

Fixes: NEOS-599
Resolves: NEOS-815

* Commit: `932f5c6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/932f5c62936f8945e2655c32e9067721f0183c37>`_

[BUGFIX] Request forbidden after login dialog re-login
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a non GET request is being intercepted by the login dialog,
the request retry fails after a successful login. This is due to
the CSRF token isn't updated before retrying the request.

Fixes: NEOS-814

* Commit: `308f224 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/308f224dbfd7ed94f3e20d45d178b44ae2ef2e71>`_

[TASK] LinkEditor & Reference(s) inspector editors improvements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Removes the <b> tag around results in Reference(s) editors
- Highlights result text matching search text
- Prevent re-initializing Reference(s) editors unnecessarily on property
  changes

Resolves: NEOS-808

* Commit: `c545db8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c545db85419476016058032cf085e72581f2e113>`_

[BUGFIX] Publish button failed connection state broken
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since the removal of ExtDirect the failed connection status for the
publish menu has been broken, because it uses the node endpoint to
listen for failed requests, which isn't available. Instead it should
listen to the HttpClient.

Fixes: NEOS-444

* Commit: `f8cfef7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f8cfef7284434325c53028c445338b127402d63a>`_

[BUGFIX] Node type schema validation throws errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds schema for ui.aloha strong, em, del & formatlesspaste options

Allows setting ui.inspector.group to NULL as well as a string (unset support)

Fixes: NEOS-813
Fixes: NEOS-812

* Commit: `f79f876 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f79f876f9f6303c3a6b011d42138615d57c5556d>`_

[TASK] Pass the controller context to a data source if it's settable
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A data source might need access to the current request for
building URIs. With this change, the controller context is set
if a data source provides a setter for it.

Related: NEOS-594

* Commit: `412de68 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/412de6811d4296a52914befc916c9a86220db604>`_

[BUGFIX] use nodeName instead of label for node:repair command
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

node:repair must be used for upgrading to Neos 1.2
Nodenames with german umlauts will break the new builded
url from the url path segment without this fix.

Fixes: NEOS-819

* Commit: `0222d88 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0222d88a5da765d4d1cff67ed2d072ea91ee8aaa>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove PHP 5.4 syntax for Neos 1.2 and 1.1 branches
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fix for NEOS-411 introduced PHP 5.4 syntax for short arrays into the
AbstractServiceController.

Related: NEOS-411

* Commit: `674641c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/674641cdf123b48f27ca7c7565bed8a6537a7c8e>`_

[BUGFIX] Icon alignment on insert new panel buttons
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `fbc11ae <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fbc11ae0f66ce3138b45a8a9deb22da36cd616c4>`_

[BUGFIX] Inline editing insert new panel sorting broken
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Regression introduced in Ie87f10dd3bd9b61a4e65d84bba05813f9476a52b

Related: NEOS-609

* Commit: `86bc850 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/86bc85060f3e4e157970d595609b71faf91f92fb>`_

[BUGFIX] Grunt should watch scss files in all subdirectories
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The pattern did not consider files in directories of a deeper level.

* Commit: `dd32f24 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/dd32f247e84be8027a6b348dd34860325bba19ae>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent recursion problems in Menus
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Object comparisons should be done strict otherwise PHP will
do a full comparison of all properties of both objects, which
is slow and can lead to recursion problems.
Changing the rootline comparison in menus to strict will prevent
that.

* Commit: `cf77761 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cf777610160852e93accb9b5a7f00f2a0ec6f101>`_

[BUGFIX] Uncached PluginView
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Plugins are uncached by default. PluginViews should get the same
caching behavior.

Resolves: NEOS-548

* Commit: `80f1940 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/80f1940b35b344ff214acff79ad1fa231d08118f>`_

[TASK] Minor improvements to SelectBoxEditor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `7f078fb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7f078fb2d07553c0ff045cd66c4cd37268e68311>`_

[BUGFIX] Bottom border in single selected option for Select2
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `28a8f9f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/28a8f9f3a947e4df9b377e0a3338c51b7d5107ab>`_

[TASK] Fix link in 1.2.0-beta2 release notes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `5c22758 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5c227581643f0e508585cbcba420bbb557fb26d6>`_

[BUGFIX] Shake effect on failed login broken
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression was introduced with the update of jQueryUI,
breaking the shake effect shown on failed logins.
This is due to the library no longer having the effects included,
and the path to the library not being adjusted.

Related: Ia286cf80246d21337eb1ae6bd3ad3d2aa22833ab

Fixes: NEOS-803

* Commit: `4076d90 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4076d90a4f3c338cbbfc3b726869602ac7d1b0d6>`_

[TASK] Update release notes for 1.2.0-beta2
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `7c39fe5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7c39fe5ee5eaf78042372428f586900080bf1052>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Order of image properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The order of properties in the image inspector group,
is not specfically configured meaning that the order
is determined by the configuration merging.

* Commit: `1a6d1c2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/1a6d1c27c22bf48fc56b90f1151d9876370ab4f9>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Add default dimension values when kickstarting a new site
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The site kickstarter never added any dimension values to the generated
Sites.xml, this would result in an unusable site if dimensions where
configured as the nodes without dimension values wouldn't be found.

With this change the current dimension defaults are added to the
generated Sites.xml.
This still means that kickstarting a site, then adding dimensions and
importing will result in a problem. But this should be solved on the
Neos side in a general way.

Fixes: NEOS-757

* Commit: `818f8e4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter.git/commit/818f8e4a74384aea276750af4af8950b84eef427>`_

[BUGFIX] Make special characters in sitename possible
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using special charcters in the sitename while
creating a new site with the kickstarter the generated
site.xml is rendered broken.

Resolves: NEOS-493

* Commit: `6007888 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter.git/commit/6007888881f69883517063fd8b03b61819350fb8>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Minor comment changes to NodeData class
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `ed1d721 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/ed1d72170cbf482c198a9dbcd711eecd026ebb84>`_

[TASK] Include (internal) search over node properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Move the method for node fulltext search into a repository method for
proper workspace and dimension behavior. This method is internal API
and bound to change.

Related: NEOS-824

* Commit: `2b73a26 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/2b73a26eb0ec1b66d22ea4f51c8c725db7da51b3>`_

[BUGFIX] Site export is broken due to incorrect sorting
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fix sorting order by making ``/`` always precede other
characters like ``-``.

If there are two similarilly named nodes like ``node``
and ``node-1`` they will be sorted by path as ``node``,
``node-1``, ``node-1/childnode``, ``node/childnode``
which would cause site export to produce a broken XML
(site export relies on correct sorting of nodes by path).

Doctrine doesn't support ``replace`` function, thus
the sorting is implemented in PHP by replacing ``/``
with ``!`` (the first visible character in ASCII).

Fixes: NEOS-829

* Commit: `8761b66 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/8761b66d915a46a9334fb836ec7f44924b647820>`_

[BUGFIX] Add ``label`` property to NodeTypes schema
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This extends the ``NodeTypes.schema.yaml`` to cover the recently
introduced ``label`` property.
The updated schema also supports unsetting of existing labels
(by setting it NULL)

Fixes: NEOS-813
Fixes: NEOS-812

* Commit: `7aa2768 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/7aa27689bdff450420bf56239f338e32350fbaf9>`_

[BUGFIX] When writing to dimensionValues use proper conversion to DB
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The dimensionValues field of NodeData is declared as object array, thus
when writing to it, the proper conversion needs to be done.

Related: FLOW-132

* Commit: `ee210f1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/ee210f196e31f5debabc9ef68c216491fd973928>`_

[BUGFIX] Make findByWorkspace() work on PostgreSQL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The introduction of a check for "removed = 0" breaks on PostgreSQL
because there is no operator to compare integer to boolean directly.

Using a placeholder in the query and giving a type hint to Doctrine
this is fixed with this change.

Fixes: NEOS-823
Related: NEOS-770

* Commit: `8e558f2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/8e558f2c11ff8fec64d4684a197bd89efafd5406>`_

[TASK] Make TYPO3CR independent of TYPO3.Media again
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes a hard dependency of TYPO3.Media, to make TYPO3CR
usable again in projects that do not use TYPO3.Media.

* Commit: `7e40a81 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/7e40a8126a8b563b1595384f1aef1ee994adf7c0>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Support access to properties with "this" in @if expressions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a missing case that was not tested and can easily be fixed.

Fixes: NEOS-835

* Commit: `4d86f25 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/4d86f252434cf4f5a20f0e1d70c7e71d4d9f80bf>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

