==================
1.2.1 (2015-01-02)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Add date to changelog titles
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `466de04 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/466de0417df7eb6f3d7dae4f3dd390e84d9f8cf0>`_

[TASK] Depend on 1.2-dev branches of distribution packages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `de10c98 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/de10c9893739df7320c2a6441501a988ebea0887>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/24/

* Commit: `0ea1a94 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0ea1a94dc4f3d3de9b4eb56e536773785e94c61e>`_

[TASK] Remove wrong title in changelog index
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `39429d9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/39429d9c7480a7ddc0692b06791bd7d5085f9e44>`_

[TASK] Add release date to changelog titles
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `4946c34 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4946c34d3c6b9c1f00372e3a3d133b3cc9bbedf9>`_

[TASK] Remove backup changelog for 1.1.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `7f61284 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7f6128411e74b7880a902b9436d7fde72329214c>`_

[TASK] Only warn when navigating away for non safe requests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When navigating away from the content module an alert is shown
if requests are in progress. This leads to some undesired alerts
when the requests are simple get requests that won't cause loss
of data if not completed. To improve this the behavior should only
apply to non safe requests.

Resolves: NEOS-907

* Commit: `8e3792d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8e3792d0205f598b027dba2b4a73830d1b646cc7>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove undesired "(Page)" when editing titles in the node tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When editing a title in the node tree the title used contains "(Page)"
afterwards, since its using the tooltip as it's source for the existing
title.

Fixes: NEOS-909

* Commit: `837dca4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/837dca44eae39cbff484e32cf410269a18401fac>`_

[TASK] Use HTML5 validation on login form
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents sending incomplete login credentials.

Related: NEOS-815

* Commit: `6bc7757 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6bc7757e38f24170252f96319e919acde8f3bc3a>`_

[BUGFIX] Add missing username on re-login dialog
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: NEOS-905

* Commit: `83babec <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/83babec5d552e8e9006251c287c6cb9d83ac6995>`_

[BUGFIX] Handle unset inspector groups correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevent a fatal error when unsetting an inspector group to ~ (null)

Fixes: NEOS-910

* Commit: `d5561b4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d5561b4463481b0fc487f8ee29ce6fa00d99a3c8>`_

[TASK] Use consistent label on publish all button
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Always show "Publish all" instead of "Published" when
no publishable changes are present. This is to avoid
confusion of what the button does and to streamline it
with the discard buttons.

Resolves: NEOS-908

* Commit: `a3cde3f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a3cde3f5c925d42b6c2a572d4d0dfc80f0a6fad9>`_

[BUGFIX] Throw exception when trying to import an invalid Sites.xml file
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change a more meaningful exception is thrown if a site could
not be imported for unknown reasons.
Besides this slightly improves the ``site:import`` command to give
feedback about the imported site on success.

This also adds some cosmetic and non-functional cleanups in order to
increase readabilty and IDE support:

* Import FQN where applicable
* Reduce nesting in ``SiteImportService::importFromFile()``
* Remove unused import statements
* Whitespace fixes

Related: NEOS-885

* Commit: `e2de993 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e2de993dc9cce192e6064ac36dbb87b81ea3ffb2>`_

[BUGFIX] ContentCollection properties cannot be saved
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Without this change, saving ContentCollections results in an endless loop.

Resolves: NEOS-188

* Commit: `9fc7539 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9fc7539cb0afac8345cb3de276d4109aaaf95c73>`_

[BUGFIX] Clear content and route cache when importing / pruning sites
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds signals and dispatcher connections to clear content and routing
caches when sites were pruned or imported.

Fixes: NEOS-885

* Commit: `10d5fc1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/10d5fc11e5c2f5e4e8cdab398905bf2300a65cc4>`_

[BUGFIX] fix image cropper on sites without bootstrap
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Because an unprefixed "clearfix" CSS class was used, the
image cropper only worked on sites based on Bootstrap. This
is fixed by properly namespacing the clearfix css class and
use "neos-clearfix" instead.

Resolves: NEOS-901

* Commit: `e0337ed <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e0337ed3752dee68e01605db4b5722c46c787396>`_

[TASK] Display warning if a inspector editor cannot be loaded
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: NEOS-894
(cherry picked from commit 46a5a721ab41fde21565902ca725f291d08a5021)

* Commit: `fe338af <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fe338af21d710ace91eed37ea84f1d7ce19f4cbe>`_

[TASK] Streamline direction and adjust position of notification arrow
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit 1da2e6e41bfcb6373e40d4ec47ba53e8c39c1b91)

* Commit: `41e9ac9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/41e9ac9d8c9692ecf7fdd3b311570aca4de57c66>`_

[TASK] Refactor PrimaryContent to use "renderer" instead of "type"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Using "renderer" with an object and property declaration is easier
to read than "type" with prototype override.

(cherry picked from commit 55fd6c7d1e4b8043bf9e395c7aefdba3853890ac)

* Commit: `293f2c5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/293f2c5cc8fd15ae892360f0cc01eff25f79f1d2>`_

[TASK] Small correction in PHPDoc for convertUriToObject method
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(cherry picked from commit d1e9fa6cef3fcea9520cdd085ecde9f1d0db8fab)

* Commit: `7b82865 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7b8286528edac7b05a560a981e1b484942cff26b>`_

[BUGFIX] Disallow inserting content in normal content elements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To avoid allowing inserting content inside other content elements,
unless explicitly allowed like for the content collection,
we constraint it for all content elements.

Fixes: NEOS-445

* Commit: `9a668a7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9a668a76f361823113345bd3c4463f59431d4c21>`_

[BUGFIX] Error for selected values in LinkEditor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevent errors thrown in the LinkEditor for selected values due to
incorrect format used in jQuery selector, leading to
``Syntax error, unrecognized expression``.

Fixes: NEOS-891
Related: NEOS-856

* Commit: `c808791 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c808791c6524cf1bbe25d24f30f9f20d988a70cf>`_

[BUGFIX] Gracefully handle wrong property types in PropertyEditor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before this a wrong / missing property type would basically crash the
backend and give no clear error message. This change adds a notification
and a console error (if available) with more details.

Related: NEOS-883

* Commit: `02bc073 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/02bc07355d4721afa7f4e11a83f5e9591dbaae3d>`_

[TASK] Add site node to content context for rendering tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Functional tests might give wrong exceptions on failure
because the exception handler expects a site context variable.

* Commit: `da6b738 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/da6b7389dd76c230bbb26ca14f7b0204f2ef3fa2>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust broken ``NodeTypeSchemaBuilder`` test
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the broken ``NodeTypeSchemaBuilder`` test for
``nodeTypesContainCorrectSuperTypes`` to the changed format.

Related: NEOS-870

* Commit: `c931412 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c931412fc20eec0b77f4b7917b6d7e1d7af33ce1>`_

[BUGFIX] ContentContextFactory should not instanciate Now
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ContentContextFactory created instances of
\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Utility\\Now which should instead be injected.

This resulted in hard to debug errors and is prevented by
injecting Now into the parent class in TYPO3CR.

Related: NEOS-879

* Commit: `35dc31d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/35dc31db4649c3d0031e0a1f07539e6ce6230192>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix typos in 1.2 changelogs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2ba871b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2ba871b0d8bd63a8f68c779a0ce0e6a100af8c4d>`_

[TASK] Update release notes for 1.2.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `efff4a4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/efff4a43a41aa952b91b84101bd7732e12cacaae>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[!!!][BUGFIX] Node with identifier should only exist once per context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On adopting nodes or in cases with undefined NodeData precedence
it could happen that for the same identifier two Node objects are
created for the same context. By just using the identifier and the
context object hash in NodeFactory that is prevented. Nodes that
are adopted into their own context directly get the new NodeData
object, thus the factory doesn't need to know about it.

This removes the $dimensions argument from NodeInterface::createNode().
It was dangerous to use anyway so you shouldn't rely on it.
Node::createNode() also sees  the argument removed so make sure you
remove all usages of it from your code.

Fixes: NEOS-354

* Commit: `df5fb26 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/df5fb263285e3489824293e7d12d0f45e313054a>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix broken test in NodeImportServiceTest
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `6e3ec34 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/6e3ec346c2d331d83e02f5b7bf2ad6e2e2054564>`_

[BUGFIX] Correclty handle empty property elements in node import
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: NEOS-807

* Commit: `f808a45 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/f808a455d185eb65df34dd5f641c1ad51670c2a1>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix broken ``ContextFactoryTest`` & ``ContextTest``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes two broken tests, which break due to the unit tests not
automatically injecting lazy properties.

``ContextFactoryTest::createMergesDefaultPropertiesBeforeSettingAnInstanceByIdentifier``
``ContextTest::getCurrentDateTimeReturnsACurrentDateAndTime``

Related: NEOS-879

* Commit: `5de4a29 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/5de4a29b42d5f0378ec91277b3c5ef4b6713a8e5>`_

[BUGFIX] Now should not be instanciated
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the ContextFactory creates new instances of
\\TYPO3\\Flow\\Utility\\Now which results in multiple context instances
despite having the same context properties.

This led to hard to debug errors that could happen randomly.
By injecting Now from the ObjectManager these problems are prevented.

Resolves: NEOS-879

* Commit: `bdea64e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/bdea64ef26f2408110005fd429cb0fda5a9a0055>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fail gracefully for broken resources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a resource is missing an uncaught exception is thrown,
rendering the page completely unaccessible.

Fixes: NEOS-414

* Commit: `6860d30 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/6860d305952518e14e889800fea0580b6f4e7f8a>`_

[!!!][TASK] Move ImageTag and ImageUri TypoScript objects to TYPO3.Neos
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This moves the ImageTag and ImageUri TypoScript objects to the Neos
package to avoid a dependency on TypoScript in TYPO3.Media.

This is breaking if you already used the newly introduced objects,
in that case you have to replace ``TYPO3.Media`` with ``TYPO3.Neos``.

Fixes: NEOS-745

* Commit: `d7cb998 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/d7cb9989fed7aa245bfbc0efc35129aba71e77a8>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

