`1.2.11 (2015-10-14) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/1.2.11>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`[BUGFIX] Graceful handling of node linking exceptions <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/119>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Gracefully handle exceptions in the NodeUri TS object
- Gracefully handle exceptions in node linking view helpers

* Resolves: `NEOS-1625 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1625>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Prevent fatal error in ``node:repair`` with broken node structure <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/122>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the "/sites" root node or it's children cannot be found a fatal error
is thrown or it's silently ignored. Instead output an error message that the
nodes could not be found.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Enable Behat Neos Behat tests for Travis <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/129>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a ``@browser`` tag used to skip those since they require
Selenium and take very long to run.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Enable Behat Travis tests <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/128>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Additionally includes a couple of general improvements.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Ignore built JavaScript/CSS to avoid merge conflicts <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/127>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To avoid merge conflicts, the minified built files are ignored in Git and
instead added using force by the automated jobs in Jenkins.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Behavior tests failing with new structure <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/76>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`[TASK] Replace usage of compass font-files to get rid of cache bust <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/125>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is done since we don't need that cache bust and since it's updated
on every new compilation unnecessarily. It's not possible to disable in
Compass without scripting, so the inclusion is just done manually instead.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] No longer use invalid data in functional test <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/121>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The MigrationStatusRepositoryTest used invalid fixture data, the
direction was filled with strings that were too long for the related
DB column. On MySQL this is silently truncated, but on PostgreSQL it
leads to an error.

Now the expected class constants are used in the test.

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`[BUGFIX] Use current node as document node if no document node is found <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/117>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the fallback node mode is triggered, the ``documentNode`` TypoScript
variable is empty leading to various issues. This solves that by using the
current node as the document node in that case.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1624 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1624>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Position master plugin selection above plugin view selection <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/46>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Positions the master plugin selection in the inspector for a PluginView above
instead of undernearth the plugin view selection, to avoid confusion since
the plugin view selection depends on the master plugin selection.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1544 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1544>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Unset selected plugin view when changing master view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/41>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When changing the master view selection for a PluginView,
the selected plugin view is not unset causing confusion.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1541 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1541>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Remove superfluous quotes from PluginView label <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/40>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes superfluous quotes around PluginView label seen in the plugin view editor for plugin views.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Fix license header text <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/106>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes a superfluous "the" in the license header, it's
not "THE Neos".

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Fix some code style issues <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/105>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Adjust documentation link in setup final step <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/98>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Update license headers <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/95>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change updates license headers in all packages contained in the Neos Development Collection according to what has been discussed earlier: https://discuss.neos.io/t/rfc-license-header-file-doc-comment-change/517


* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add .editorconfig file <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/78>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`[TASK] Add .travis.yml for the 1.2 branch <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/87>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`[TASK] Add configuration file for StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/77>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Prevent fatal error for missing master plugin in PluginViews <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/42>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents PluginViews with a master plugin selected that cannot be found
from throwing a fatal error. This can happen when the master plugin is
removed/moved or is not available in the context.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1530 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1530>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add Code of Conduct <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/71>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a reStructuredText version of the Contributor Covenant
code of conduct, to make it clear the project is governed by that.

See also http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/2/0/

`[TASK] Add Readme.rst files for individual packages <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/74>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a Readme.rst to each package, so that the read-only subsplit
repositories have a readme file for GitHub to show and for the users
to read.

* Packages: ``Kickstarter`` ``Media`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes`` ``TYPO3CR`` ``TypoScript``

`[BUGFIX] Reset date picker to current date instead of null <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/66>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If reset to null, the date picker would default to 1899 instead of the
current date when being opened again.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1351 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1351>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add composer.json and template <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/39>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/1.2.10...1.2.11>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
