`1.2.13 (2015-11-23) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/1.2.13>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`[BUGFIX] Use correct node for content collection metadata <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/180>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Content collection handles are not shown since the meta data
added is using the document node instead of the actual node.

Regression introduced with `4672697b9477ceca53ee7b4e47c4def002e50e32 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/4672697b9477ceca53ee7b4e47c4def002e50e32>`_
causing the node not to be set correctly for the
``contentElementWrapping`` processor.

* Related: `NEOS-1326 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1326>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Security warning if Neos demo is public <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/193>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Improve logging for "no homepage found" situations <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/178>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the Node Route Part Handler wasn't able to find a site node,
the exception now contains information about if at least a domain
could be detected and if so, which one matched.

Additionally, `matchValue()` will now also log an exception if the
request path was empty (that is, the user requested the homepage) and
not only for sub pages.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] if in backend, do not intercept links to static resources <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/177>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents loading links to static resources using AJAX in the backend interface,
which fail when loaded.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Keep status code from module response on redirect <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/170>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The response of a module loses the status code if it contains a Location
header. This is caused by the ModuleController redirecting to the found
location but ignoring any status code that may have been set. This means
that a module will only create 303 redirects.

This change takes the status code of a module response and applies it to
the generated redirect, fixing this behavior.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add apigen.yml <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/153>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds an apigen.yml file for use when generating API docs.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/1.2.12...1.2.13>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
