`1.2.16 (2016-03-16) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/1.2.16>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Reset \`\`backendOptions\`\` for TypoScript content cache in testing context <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/383>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a bug that occurs if there is a custom configuration for ``TYPO3_TypoScript_Content`` cache with ``backendOptions`` set. This fix will unset the ``backendOptions`` in testing context which are not allowed for the ``TYPO3\\Flow\\Cache\\Backend\TransientMemoryBackend`` backend.

NEOS-1781 #close

* Packages: ``TypoScript``

`BUGFIX: Additional styles for modules loaded after Neos <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/384>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Via `additionalResources.styleSheets` a map of additional
stylesheet files can be defined that are loaded in the module
the configuration was made for. Unfortunately they were loaded
before the Neos default styles which makes overwriting of some of
those styles cumbersome and more difficult than necessary.

This change switches the loading order so that the Neos styles
are loaded before any additional resources.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Adjust some leftovers related to TYPO3CR PostgreSQL schema <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/380>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Drops the default value for pathhash and renames one index.

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: Adjust index names to match Doctrine DBAL 2.5 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/369>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The use of Doctrine 2.5 (instead of 2.4) exposes the fact that some
(old) index names in the Neos database schema do not match the names
that are generated currently.

This adjusts those index names, something that is a one-time adjustment.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: Node property can be null in removeProperty <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/357>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``AbstractNodeData::removeProperty()`` method checked
the existence of the given property with ``isset`` but that
leads to an exception if the property has a ``null`` value.
The check has been changed to ``array_key_exists``.

NEOS-1719 #close

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: Fix link to Flow documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/359>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix broken link tag in link node view helper docblock <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/358>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fixed a typo in \`\`_InlineEditing.scss\`\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/353>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The css property ``inline-offset`` doesn't exist, it should be
``outline-offset``.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Remove site logic from parents operation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/318>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There is site logic within the parents operation inside the TYPO3.CR package. There is a seperate operation especially for Neos now.

NEOS-1628 #resolve

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/1.2.15...1.2.16>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
