==================
1.2.2 (2015-02-05)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/25/

* Commit: `8157239 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8157239d53dc6f7b45ee63729654e28d3451ace2>`_

[BUGFIX] Unsetting node properties not possible
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Correct handling of node properties set to null (unset).

Fixes: NEOS-973

* Commit: `574f7d9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/574f7d9dc5f9e555f1c615496999b91c0d468a2a>`_

[BUGFIX] Empty integer values are converted to array by vie
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a node type has a property of type integer without a default
value configured the content element wrapping service wraps an
empty attribute for that property. When vie reads the entity
from the DOM it converts the attribute to an array containing a
list of NaN string values.

Besides converting the value it adds an exception to the
HtmlAugmenter service that will be thrown if invalid attributes
are passed.

Resolves: NEOS-579

* Commit: `7c3f124 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7c3f124309ce942ffc78074eceabcfbfde710e73>`_

[BUGFIX] Resource links breaks across HTTP scheme / domain
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a site is accessed through different HTTP schemes (http/https),
the cached content contains links with the first one accessed that
is used for both. Same goes for different domains, if no domains
have been configured for a site. This leads to errors with
cross-origin resource sharing and unexpected behavior.

Fixes: NEOS-852

* Commit: `76249c5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/76249c50f195e6b7236f2d6bf6a0cf0fca56cfc8>`_

[BUGFIX] Linking via context path works in non TypoScript environment
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since 1.2 you couldn't link to a node using the context node path outside
of TypoScript environments. This feature can be useful in lots of
use-cases where you have a node path but no TypoScript context.

This change fixes that behavior and adds tests that actually test this
to prevent this kind of regression.

Fixes: NEOS-961

* Commit: `83a1fa6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/83a1fa6967b32a6ce007f73f3243e7438e11e788>`_

[BUGFIX] Aloha list type styles missing in Raw Content Mode
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: NEOS-889

* Commit: `cfc9999 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cfc99995e74973655b55b9d097fb03eed483986d>`_

[BUGFIX] Configuration module not displaying content
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration module does not display any configuration
when loadMinifiedJavascript is enabled in Firefox. This happens
due to depending on a global configuration variable which is unset
when read in the Ember application. This only happens in with the
minified build due to JavaScript execution order. Instead of relying
on the global variable, we set the explicit path to be used instead.

Fixes: NEOS-881

* Commit: `2a9ed2d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2a9ed2d1f11f27c45eda5a0eac52efb9205b4ba9>`_

[BUGFIX] Deletion of rows/columns in Aloha tables
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Selecting a row or column in an Aloha table and clicking
to delete it in the inspector, a Javascript error is
thrown due to jQueryUI missing the dialog widget. This
change adds that widget and styles the dialog to look
like the standard dialog boxes.

Fixes: NEOS-810

* Commit: `2b98c45 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2b98c458e67eabde14a1ffae887587fce2c73ee6>`_

[BUGFIX] Media button activated across editors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Having multiple properties using instances of either
the image or asset editors, clicking the media browser
button will result in all buttons being shown as active
at the same time. This is prevented by creating separate
instances for each editor.

Fixes: NEOS-756

* Commit: `7d4c67c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7d4c67c8f21369c3c4b5ace0b583e6c78ff8f7f2>`_

[TASK] Small doc fix: wrong indentation for note
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `25e681a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/25e681ac9e978c6f9bba6b0aad1615dfca1df8b0>`_

[BUGFIX] Avoid exceptions in FrontendNodeRoutePartHandler
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes the FrontendNodeRoutePartHandler return FALSE in case
a NoSuchDimensionValueException is thrown in matchValue(). This makes
it possible to continue with routing to find other possible matches.

Fixes: NEOS-923

* Commit: `8a31301 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8a31301b9f4cde8ec7abe49c8fcca6cc6e312777>`_

[TASK] Append number instead of uniqid to duplicate uriPathSegments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a uriPathSegment is duplicated on the same level a uniqid is appended
to avoid conflicts. However this is not very user friendly, so instead a
number is appended which additionally has a chance of not needing to be
changed afterwards.

Related: NEOS-970

* Commit: `7c026d6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7c026d6e859d2e2f97fc611cad2df83a25690832>`_

[BUGFIX] Avoid broken image adjustments caused by floats
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When converting crop options from the preview image coordinates, no
rounding took place. This could e.g. lead to very small negative numbers
being used for the start coordinate, resulting in errors.

This is avoided by using Math.round() in the calculation.

* Commit: `1ff4415 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1ff4415d66043acbd46828ea3fbb92a101a2f8bb>`_

[BUGFIX] Copying nodes created duplicate uriPathSegment entries
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On duplicating a document (page), the uriPathSegment property was simply
copied as well, resulting in the same URI for two distinct documents if
the copy is a sibling of the original nodes.

This change amends the slot used to fill the uriPathSegment so those
duplicates are avoided upon copy and can also no longer be caused by
manually passing a used uriPathSegment.

Fixes: NEOS-970

* Commit: `a5b71f6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a5b71f69b05502070fff0e3b5f7299de7df0b1f0>`_

[BUGFIX] Cross-browser compatible ellipsis animation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The current implementation only support webkit browsers. The animation
is used in various areas like login button, saving/publish button.

Fixes: NEOS-940

* Commit: `aedb2bb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/aedb2bb39d30e9a00339448fa8206e045567b5e6>`_

[BUGFIX] Render service exceptions as JSON
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the ``AbstractServiceController`` to catch all exceptions that
occur during request processing in order to convert them to JSON::

    {
      "error": {
        "code": 12345,
        "message": "Exception message",
        "details": "Optional message details",
        "referenceCode": "2015012315120876d8b2",
        "previous": {
          "code": 54321,
          "message": "Nested child exception"
        }
      }
    }

"details", "referenceCode" and "previous" are optional.

Note: This is a preliminary solution that improves error handling in
Backend. In the long term the exception handling of Flow will be
improved and this hotfix be deprecated.

Related: NEOS-108

* Commit: `fa76b53 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fa76b533304edc99932f1feccd8bad144f8c9f74>`_

[BUGFIX] Loose domain matching check in menu site list
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `c32a5b1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c32a5b188643385e587a0fab9d94ef9c0102b241>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove doubled slashes in site uri for site menu
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the site menu the uri contained doubled slashes, because path had
trailing slash and uri had leading slash. Removed the trailing slash
in path. This only happens for sites with an active domain record.

Resolves: NEOS-450

* Commit: `f7caa8a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f7caa8af772890e2a96d15b7f9b40fe541d2e370>`_

[BUGFIX] "uriPathSegment" not created via auto-created child nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes the issue where the property "uriPathSegment" is missing when
document nodes are created via the auto-create child nodes mechanism.

If a node type triggers creation of a sub node of type
"TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Page", that new node does not contain a
"uriPathSegment" property and thus results in exception, for example if
the sub document nodes are shown in the node tree.

The solution provided by this change registers a simple slot for the
Node Added signal which sets the uriPathSegment property to the
node name if that property does not exist yet.

Resolves: NEOS-925

* Commit: `f17b975 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f17b9756775a90d3da3e68a634a10fbad49f1d45>`_

[BUGFIX] Missing safe guard for empty label in NodeView
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes an issue in NodeView which causes an exception on rare occasions
when node type labels are empty.

The original error message was::

  Uncaught exception #1: Warning: strpos(): Empty needle in
  TYPO3_Neos_Service_View_NodeView.php line 273

* Commit: `8e5fe34 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8e5fe3448f4d647d0f80fc9e62ab41014cb7b560>`_

Revert "[TASK] Refactor PrimaryContent to use 'renderer' instead of 'type'"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts commit 293f2c5cc8fd15ae892360f0cc01eff25f79f1d2 for the
1.2 branch because it introduced a regression that breaks "Raw content
editing".

Background:
Fixing "Raw content editing" is really easy and will be done for master
(1.3+).
But chances are that this also affects 3rd party code that added own editing
modes.

Fixes: NEOS-921

* Commit: `b12991d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b12991d2b83f66b6fbd95cbf7ac056716a89286f>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Remove unset NodeType properties from configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: NEOS-973

* Commit: `15c0122 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/15c012243738cc946f5040598cde3c798daace56>`_

[BUGFIX] RenameDimension transformation keeps existing dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The RenameDimension transformation was destructive for other existing
dimensions, so executing a migration with this transformation twice
would result in a broken state.

Fixes: NEOS-926

* Commit: `cee49b2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/cee49b23f381c9cd8b601959b4d83be0bf1bc83a>`_

[BUGFIX] Make SiblingsOperation usable on toplevel nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The FlowQuery SiblingsOperation assumed that the nodes in the context
all return a parent node. If that is not true, a fatal error is caused
by the use of a method call on a non-object.

This change fixes that by checking for the parent node to exist before
trying to iterate over it's children.

* Commit: `4d91146 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/4d911469a426070ae882613487b2b78fad21d608>`_

[TASK] Adjust NodeTypes schema to allow unsetting properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: NEOS-973

* Commit: `f649e09 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/f649e09ee1af2d2fc1c584fa00fa6a84ed737296>`_

[BUGFIX] Correctly import node properties of type array
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a set export contains nodes with array properties, the export cannot
be imported again. Thus arrays of strings, as produced by references
properties are rendered unusable.

The change adds a test for this case and fixes it by the way array elements
are parsed.

Fixes: NEOS-931

* Commit: `c14b6a8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/c14b6a8a701b1a6bc91f5a11a06890ad6b1e3a0f>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow configured childNodes to be moved
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ChildNodes should not be bound to constraints as they are explicitly
configured. Therefore moving a Node that is a childNode at the target
place should not be stopped by node constraints.

* Commit: `9b2c03c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/9b2c03c9588d592024ace3a9174a24ecf133877e>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove unpresent property from Repository
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This removes the not present property ``workspaceName``
from the MigrationStatusRepository to make it function
properly again.

Resolves: NEOS-967

* Commit: `2a87b57 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/2a87b57a05c7c024f4ed83e6698de6deea944835>`_

[TASK] Improve node retrieval in node:repair's child node creation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Improves the retrival of nodes in createChildNodesByNodeType to exclude
shadow & removed nodes directly in the query as well as only fetching
nodes for the given workspace.

Related: NEOS-841

* Commit: `c600480 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/c60048082586a27010a61319a6cd73b9fa2f7c11>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Don't catch SecurityExceptions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the method
``AbstractRenderingExceptionHandler::handleRenderingException()`` to
always rethrow exceptions of type ``TYPO3\\Flow\\Security\\Exception``.

Background:

If a security related exception is thrown, it must always bubble up.
Otherwise redirection to login forms won't work when an
``AuthenticationRequiredException`` is thrown in a sub request.

Related: FLOW-130

* Commit: `e47703f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/e47703f5a5bdceb1b891aaf343a8cb1346e36cf3>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Add check to make sure OriginalImage exists in `__wakup` call
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In some rare cases OriginalImage may not be set when
de-serializng ImageVariant object, like in case when there are
two image properties pointing to the same image resource.
Add a check just to be sure it's there before using it.

Related: NEOS-979

* Commit: `37183d0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/37183d0ef001b9c15ccddae0f042c11f6c0c4271>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Language selector broken in iOS Safari (touch)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the language selector relying on hover state for displaying,
it's not working on iOS Safari. This can be solved by using the pointer
cursor.

Fixes: NEOS-971

* Commit: `275523c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/275523c9eb344834566a8be36ab739861d2c5b6c>`_

[BUGFIX] Link on logo should be to home
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The link on the Neos logo is supposed to go to the home page.
In the template a link to the variable ``site`` is created, but
as this variable is never set the link is to the current page.
This change adds the variable to the template, fixing the link.

* Commit: `d8d5b6a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/d8d5b6ad918b63cd86f6aeb29ea7cbdc810a47e2>`_

