==================
1.2.3 (2015-03-26)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Add support metadata to composer.json
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `858c64b <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/858c64b0aa9a2e83b8bb96c2b86871b15eadb20d>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/26/

* Commit: `7a0ee0d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7a0ee0dc563891c7918092f9d28108672e28a8a8>`_

[BUGFIX] Disable caching when editing nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In Internet Explorer the response from the backend
when editing a page in the inspector was cached.
This means that changes are not visible and the
editor is forced to reload the backend.
This change tells the browser not to
cache the response.

Resolves: NEOS-1030

* Commit: `3d5da6e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/3d5da6ea978ad5ef16cb4b2baed712c8e3c04c47>`_

[BUGFIX] Editing plugin view breaks with unpublished master node
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a plugin view references a master node that hasn't been published,
an exception occurs because the node cannot be found in the live workspace.

Instead of looking for the master node in the live workspace it should look
in the current workspace and with the current dimensions.

Additionally it prevents breaking if the master node can no longer be found.

Fixes: NEOS-1096

* Commit: `89d3d38 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/89d3d38f4759fcc4204cd07931969d6649fcf8ff>`_

[BUGFIX] Follow-up for broken strip tags for title in inline delete dialog
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The original bugfix didn't work properly and contained a JS error.

Related: NEOS-1125

* Commit: `9ad74db <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9ad74db9deeda8e7900f8032cd7c91b48764d891>`_

[BUGFIX] Improve usability of menu panel button
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit improves the behavior of the neos-menu-button and the
corresponding neos-menu-panel. The menu will now only be opened
on a mouseDown and closed on mouseDown again or on a mouseLeave.

This commit also contains a bugfix preventing ghost clicks on the
neos-menu-button.

Resolves: NEOS-608

* Commit: `1f13336 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1f13336c67d7fe61b7381bdf15c60467cb3dfe06>`_

[SECURITY][BUGFIX] Editors should not be able to access others’ workspaces
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Severity: Low

This is a security fix, to restrict editors from accessing content in workspaces of other
editors.

Note: We consider severity low, due to the following facts:

* You still need an editor account to access any content in workspaces, that are not
  in the live workspace
* Neos currently does not officially support access controls for editors

Fixes: NEOS-960

* Commit: `e163c82 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e163c82916bbcd8cf47282d8a566dcd1038136c3>`_

[TASK] Adapt to shadow node refactoring
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes the check for shadow nodes in ``CotentElementWrappingService``
as shadow nodes cannot exist as ``Node`` objects any longer.

Releaes: master
Depends: Ic855e10d7c6bd7fb73a5cb0926f8035910a790fe

* Commit: `850f3fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/850f3fdcf9960173d119ae34f2e5fda31f1689ed>`_

[BUGFIX] Strip html tags in the inline delete node dialog title
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes the html tags from node label displayed in the confirmation
when deleting a node inline.

Resolves: NEOS-1125

* Commit: `0ad5872 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0ad58727ade5bd57d771af16d0964b60217b6b9b>`_

[TASK] Pin typo3/twitter-bootstrap to 1.0.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Later versions (specifically dev-master) are adjusted to Neos 3.0 so they
won't work with earlier Flow versions.

* Commit: `cf80686 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cf8068665c4aa1131a3aa85db050b278aa9a6a9e>`_

[TASK] Pin typo3/setup to 1.1.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Later versions (specifically dev-master) are adjusted to Neos 3.0 so they
won't work with earlier Flow versions.

* Commit: `857987b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/857987b9d0c3eca8e74e864c669663bf1b2d012f>`_

[TASK] Collapse site selector in the menu by default
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The site selector is seldom used and doesn't handle many sites well.
To make it better it should just be collapsed instead, then users can
open it if they want to use it.

Resolves: NEOS-1130

* Commit: `58d42c3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/58d42c33c9d3c8fa4f5f0882530dc12b24674ccb>`_

[TASK] Constraint various node searching to current site
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When searching for nodes the result should be limited to the current
site to avoid issues like linking between sites is unsupported and
duplicate nodes from other sites make it difficult to tell apart.

Following searches are constrained:

- LinkEditor (Inspector)
- Reference(s)Editor (Inspector)
- Aloha link wizard
- Node tree filter

Depends: Ibaa9b914e438ba1c560d58a095a48e64a5428bfd

Fixes: NEOS-140
Resolves: NEOS-250

* Commit: `1683108 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1683108672c797ade59b4223b9947f2f0c62cd56>`_

[BUGFIX] Fixes styling issues in the pagetree of the Neos UI
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a dedicated font-size to the navigational anchors.
Adds a dedicated no text-shadow to the navigational anchors.

Fixes: NEOS-998
Related: NEOS-515

* Commit: `42ec000 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/42ec000bfa71d13d69b79d8223e562f6ff4ab905>`_

[TASK] Adjust version numbers in Documentation/Settings.yml
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The file wrongly contained "master".

* Commit: `88a1f81 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/88a1f81421fccb5f273f42d8afc2fa379a3a1fba>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix outdated nodetype in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The nodetype TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:AbstractNode has long been renamed
to TYPO3.Neos:Node.

* Commit: `dfe40c4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/dfe40c40ae5bf3cc22cacd0e12f22721a410d12f>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent duplicate errors while moving nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Now that the URI is separated from the node path the path can be
changed when moving nodes. This prevents errors when duplicate paths
could be created.

Also refactors this kind of operation into a service to be reused by
other consumers.

Fixes: NEOS-1009

* Commit: `13fee7a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/13fee7a1a568ceeb50de39d0124f732c6f733b65>`_

[BUGFIX] Circular dependency causing unexpected behavior
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A require dependency to itself caused unexpected behavior
and broke things randomly in the content module.

Regression introduced with I160263ccd4cac3f6d749b14a7e703dc53d4e7cfe

* Commit: `091717d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/091717d0a27e6b7fdd4d936cc4e80b0d4dd9f146>`_

[BUGFIX] createNewNode renders invalid uri path segments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes a problem resulting in invalid uri path segments when
creating new document nodes. When a new document was created, the
NodeController would simply take the entered document title as the
node's uri path segment, even if it contained characters which are not
allowed as part of an URL path.

We now use the TYPO3CR's function for rendering valid node names (like
in the past) which provides some more or less meaningful transliteration.

Resolves: NEOS-1079
Related: NEOS-1059

* Commit: `ee83092 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ee830920b116d9f7dec2480f33f6f8887741705f>`_

[TASK] Move release notes to a new home in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a home for release notes to the documentation and moves the
release notes that were in the change logs there.

While being at it, we also added a stub for the release notes of the
upcoming version 2.0.

* Commit: `419fc12 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/419fc1256723dd7bf6a28be7eeec6d50cb6d5824>`_

[BUGFIX] uriPathSegment handling is slow and unreliable
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes two issues with the mechanism which assures the
uniqueness of uriPathSegments among node siblings:

  1. Updating document nodes with lots of siblings was extremely slow
  2. Newly created nodes will get a non-human-friendly uriPathSegment if
     the proposed name was already taken by a sibling.

A severe side-effect was introduced with the change
``I2315d30256f7d291204363fdde7e761154cbc7e4``, making
adding/updating nodes extremely slow when a node has many siblings.

Multiplied by the check happening for every given node property change,
can lead to timeouts.

This changes the behavior to only do the necessary check if it's
actually needed, in case of new nodes, updating the ``uriPathSegment``
property or changing the path of an existing node.

Fixes: NEOS-1059

* Commit: `ee6af62 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ee6af62aa7dc89cb7740dc525436b86ae1b75721>`_

[TASK] Document default Eel helpers in context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a list of Eel helpers available in the context by default to
the section on "Eel and FlowQuery" in the "Integrator Guide".

* Commit: `5188017 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/518801757033f9be9b659ff6cfeb0b1b6190446f>`_

[BUGFIX] make error/exception handling more robust - allowing to reload in case of an error
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently, if an error during rendering occurs, and then the user reloads
this document where the error occurs, the Neos backend breaks. This is because
some required context information is not added to neos-document-metadata,
breaking the page tree and the global workspace status indicator.

This is a regression introduced by  Ia8fa5228e772b0fee15921e02135c4899df39c0a

(cherry picked from commit fb4b3697d37afaa9414e3915d5d616661de20b7f)

* Commit: `2f4011c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2f4011ce6e3c5f7a3d8fc20b91a3355820fdd7ee>`_

[TASK] Pin typo3/flow to version 2.3.*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes sure a matching framework version is required with Neos.

* Commit: `280414c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/280414c1b543a19848ec72a807811c0481939468>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent call to undefined getContext() on a non-object
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes the situation that $documentNode was set to
TRUE when it is set while it should be set to the actual
node object.

Regression introduced in I4cd01ee64a293d5ac2da75013e0fe3cfcddad5a9

* Commit: `8df7d1a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8df7d1ad082c14066c1f3fc8cb5c3b13c0f88783>`_

[BUGFIX] Page exception handler should assume no nodes set.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To prevent raising an error during exception handling the
``PageHandler`` needs to check if ``node``, ``documentNode`` and
``site`` are actually set before using them.

* Commit: `ab22179 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ab2217969c32c9210b155bab04db57888e0b7904>`_

[BUGFIX] Select2 leaks to global space
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Select2 writes a Select2 variable directly to the global
scope which causes problems with website frontends that
use jQuery and Select2. This change uses grunt to move
the definition of window.Select2 to the Shared/Utility
module in Neos.

* Commit: `5f26b5b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5f26b5b9041c86ca4d433cb451eca519f6e10c4b>`_

[BUGFIX] Make FloatValidator JS implementation require correct xregexp
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The xregexp library required was nowhere to be found. This change fixes
that.

* Commit: `7b02931 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7b02931851f820fe7490e4f6ff6a4ce706e6bbe4>`_

[TASK] Log exceptions during import to the log
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: NEOS-991

* Commit: `0605bbf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0605bbf7a2fa59a04787c798f77b850b77c8efae>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow editing of documents as content elements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a regression introduced with
Ia11ac5b6c7bef4c30e005b53f21215d0b17637c1 which resulted in document
nodes not receiving the ``neos-contentelement`` class which made them
inaccessible for the inspector. By introducing a flag to render this
special type of document metadata only if asked for it, the regression
is fixed.

* Commit: `efeac29 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/efeac29d5e7cb1a24b200f78d17acd64aea4be25>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Unable to select the Menu if it's empty
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change add a message "The menu is empty" only in the backend
context, so the user know that the menu is empty, and can select the
content element to configure it.

Resolves: NEOS-1124

* Commit: `8ecde50 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/8ecde50e7b31f7294fe63c1cb146d85c2c40681f>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Uri segment empty for kickstarted sites
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The uri segment is not set for kickstarted sites which causes
an error when trying to save the root page afterwards.
A ``node:repair`ÂÂ` will fix it as well.

Fixes: NEOS-980

* Commit: `bf8ab2e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter.git/commit/bf8ab2e08d6eb935bf6cc03f6b26b42ba17578ab>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix accessRoles xml tag
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Corrects the generated XML to match the expected
structure for an empty array.

Resolves: NEOS-1003

* Commit: `5e143fc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter.git/commit/5e143fc0dd7e470bac89cfb91a401c6376ccc58b>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Refactor shadow node generation to NodeData class
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Shadow nodes are purely internal so ``Node`` should not be
responsible to create or deal with shadow nodes at all.
Shadow nodes are also no longer exposed to the outside world
as the ``NodeFactory`` no longer creates ``Node`` instances
from shadow nodes. To do that the ``NodeData`` class got the
new method ``isInternal()`` which returns a boolean to mark
the object as purely internal preventing the NodeFactory to
create a ``Node`` object. a ``NodeData`` currently identifies
as internal if it has the ``movedTo`` property set AND
``removed`` is TRUE.

Fixes: NEOS-1013

* Commit: `ed38953 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/ed389536cb4fe4fa83e4cc7ffb0d08a610e87224>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent issues with mixed case node paths
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The node name match pattern in NodeInterface is case insensitive,
but the utility to render a valid node name enforces them to be
case insensitive. This is change removes the strtolower call
to make the utility consistent with the pattern.

Besides that the change checks if auto created child nodes
already exist before creating them to prevent constraint
errors on node copy.

Resolves: NEOS-1081

* Commit: `acddbd9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/acddbd944642f44ebbd230fbd02617763b6bf63f>`_

[TASK] More graceful handling of non-existing migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The node:migrate command exited with an uncaught exception if the
specified migration does not exist. This change will catch the
exception and display the error message instead.

* Commit: `965bc2e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/965bc2e2aa688d07d1c71808a72c03b0a6ac07d6>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix parsing of ``accessRoles`` during import
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the ``NodeImportService`` that choked on site exports that
contained non-empty ``accessRoles``.

Background:
We currently don't use/evaluate the ``accessRoles``, thus the
``site:export`` command generates empty and self-closing accessRoles
tags::

 <accessRoles __type="array"/>

If accessRoles are *not* empty (as it was the case in the manually
generated Sites.xml of the ``TYPO3.SiteKickstarter`` package (see
I04bdd9fb750df7017ec81d8b600f6bb3ba427a87) the import failed.

Fixes: NEOS-1003

* Commit: `9ebbaab <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/9ebbaab0b70cb6204e2c63030a025871f9e466da>`_

[TASK] Skip unnecessary updates in node setters
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents unnecessary signals and database updates when calling setter
methods on a Node with the existing value. Without it performance
decreases exponentially with the amount of properties being set using
the NodeConverter e.g.

Resolves: NEOS-1060

* Commit: `7a8bf4e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/7a8bf4e2f8c317eeb846fd6bef7c497616d11ec3>`_

[FEATURE] Allow findByProperties() to be constrained to a path
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently findByProperties() always searches all available nodes. This
change allows to set a $pathStartingPoint so only nodes below the given
node will be searched.

Related: NEOS-250
Related: NEOS-140

* Commit: `df45c9d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/df45c9da3c248177252d830fc2edfa941b2957a8>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove shadow nodes for moved nodes in user workspace
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a node was not yet published to the live workspace and moved in the
user workspace, the shadow node data (which is marked as removed) was
not removed. This leads to strange effects where nodes disappear for
individual users.

Fixes: NEOS-1068

* Commit: `da90131 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/da901312750dad8668d1e5acc3926b67a220b86f>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix error in PostgreSQL down migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the down migration of Version20140826164247 a FK constraint and an
index were dropped "twice" (dropping a column removes related items
already).

* Commit: `7372dad <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/7372dadfd3db55e0623a2527834a7acc0344caf6>`_

[BUGFIX] Exception when setting a node's path if it's unchanged
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents an exception caused by checking for other nodes with the same
path and finding itself, when the path is set to the existing path.
This can happen through the node converter e.g.

* Commit: `b3c29ed <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/b3c29ed60e06f159fac6abdec4a7c8877ee25c91>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix behavior of NodeData::hasAccessRestrictions()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This replaces the hard-coded check for the "Everybody" role with a
check for the fully qualified role identifier "TYPO3.Flow:Everybody".

Besides this adds tests for the the modified "isAccessible()" behavior
introduced with Ia3a6220ae7fc7224b272794dba301fba2c617876

* Commit: `0ae5a1e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/0ae5a1e3a1edb4d6f0e0de8f9c5840e7b62ae893>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix two failing unit tests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes two tests of the NodeDataTest test case that failed due to
some unexpected method sequence indexes.

Besides this cleans up the test case in order to simplify debugging and
refactoring.

* Commit: `4f47bfc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/4f47bfc4addf1d1e4d287d75d38e755c0590917c>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Fix unique constraint for workspace/dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Run ``./flow doctrine migrate`` to adjust the database.

The unique constraint https://review.typo3.org/36845 added lacked the
movedto column and broke shadow nodes.

This is breaking if you were unlucky enough to migrate between the merge
of the the aforementioned change and this very change. In that case, drop
the wrong constraint::

  DROP INDEX UNIQ_60A956B9772E836A8D94001992F8FB01 ON typo3_typo3cr_domain_model_nodedata -- MySQL
  DROP INDEX UNIQ_60A956B9772E836A8D94001992F8FB01 -- PostgreSQL

and then run this for MySQL::

  ./flow doctrine:migrationversion --version 20150211181736 --delete
  ./flow doctrine:migrate

and this for PostgreSQL::

  ./flow doctrine:migrationversion --version 20150211181737 --delete
  ./flow doctrine:migrate

Related: NEOS-1002

* Commit: `74e52d1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/74e52d19cad89804810eabb1721ed895ada6ae19>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Node data identifier not unique for workspace/dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Run ``./flow doctrine migrate`` to adjust the database.

This prevents a node duplicate identifier in the same workspace with
the same dimensions, by adding a constraint across identifier,
workspace and dimensions. Without it unexpected behavior can occur
when finding nodes by their identifier, e.g. used for references and
links.

Fixes: NEOS-1002

* Commit: `4d26407 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/4d26407eb3569ace235bf9ded13038c9a52774da>`_

[TASK] Make isAccessible() in NodeData return TRUE without security context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the security context cannot be initialized, isAccessible() will return
TRUE unconditionally.

* Commit: `4aa12ec <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/4aa12ec0e687482739bcee8bd0dd90a66ed88ee1>`_

[BUGFIX] Skip nodes that have no connection to a parent node
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes the site export for repositories that contain broken nodes
without a proper rootline (one or multiple parent nodes in the path
are missing).

Related: NEOS-991

* Commit: `b021b22 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/b021b2231737230e81c6d49a302a546cd836f557>`_

[BUGFIX] Sites with the same prefix are exported multiple times
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a case where nodes were exported multiple times, if one site
node name is the prefix of other site node names. This lead to duplicate
key constraint errors during the import.

Related: NEOS-991

* Commit: `a512363 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/a5123634329d0501d70bfd36369c5e79769f587d>`_

[BUGFIX] Support import of multiple sites
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes a problem with the import of multiple sites. The end
element for nodes was not correctly discovered, such that the nodes of
the second site would break the import.

For more robustness in these cases the change introduces an exception if
an unknown XML element is processed.

Related: NEOS-991

* Commit: `9328c22 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/9328c22918e49cfa60ad53f4572f1de8db78ab26>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fix parse errors with TypoScript comments
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This commit fixes problems with parsing "comments in comments" in TypoScript

Example::

    # */ text meant as comment

Adds a unit test and a fixture that reproduces the parsing error.
Adds a unit test for the split pattern used to identify the "type of comment".
Refactors unit test for the TypoScript parser.

Resolves: NEOS-864

* Commit: `9dfaba8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/9dfaba86468d67ec0395a578e2454b5f7fbae05d>`_

[BUGFIX] PHP 5.3 compatibility broken
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression breaking PHP 5.3 compatibility was introduced
with ``I4b2034794af05aab1ceb67d120b2da25f4b510f5`` by using
$this in a Closure.

Related: NEOS-1031

* Commit: `352e1fb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/352e1fb16c01729fa00c128a364b1f93c7ee145d>`_

[BUGFIX] Exception causes fatal error in TypoScriptPathProxy __toString
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If an exception occurs during handling of a rendering exception a fatal
error is thrown due to __toString methods not being allowed to throw
exceptions. To prevent that we catch those exceptions and try to render
them with a context depenent exception handler instead. If that also
fails we fall back to a custom handling of the exception.

Fixes: NEOS-898

* Commit: `0b90fe2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/0b90fe2712b91ba09b55701cc25ff5da3ced6342>`_

[BUGFIX] Runtime needs to reset context if it was overriden
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Context overrides were just popped off the stack at the end of
the ``evaluateInteral`` method, but need to be removed always
before returning if override happened.

* Commit: `30e884e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/30e884e0edf881a144b614676726929ed7e0e169>`_

[BUGFIX] Matcher with "renderer" should evaluate in own context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A TypoScript (Case) Matcher configured with renderer should be
evaluated with itself as context object, so that the following
configuration works as expected::

  hasLayout {
    layout = ${q(node).property('layout')}
    condition = ${this.layout ? true : false}
    renderer = ${this.layout}
  }

Without this bugfix the ``renderer`` would fail as ``this``
was not set.

(cherry picked from commit b442fcfacef4cdb12b273fb663d9a717a2a3befc)

* Commit: `d1e0faf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/d1e0faf1567b71a4595bbf809379caaab93ca0a8>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Remove unclosed li element in tags list
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `023099d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/023099d6d9ceb9a2440cdb7f5b98f3b6f8c98c29>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

