==================
1.2.4 (2015-04-17)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] `composer.json` includes development versions in stable releases
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In `Idddd184af48f6d32b995e8d224a7e237aaee84bd` the requirements for
branch tip versions were introduced to easy development, however that
had a bad side effect causing the stable releases to pull unstable
versions of packages.

To fix this the release scripts are adjusted to work with dependencies
on development branch versions.

Fixes: NEOS-1216
Depends: I791174633d2b1b0fb7263504744901d87bbb1ec6

* Commit: `5992ad8 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/5992ad84dae809af58bc008ef5ebe4af41beba86>`_

[TASK] Depend on 1.2-dev branches of distribution packages (again)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

During the release of 1.2.1 the dependencies were changed back to
the stable releases, however that should only be for the tagged
versions.

* Commit: `cf45880 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/cf4588092cbbe3c47709b55c67e4799472c61e2b>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/34/

* Commit: `abf257d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/abf257de1951de277e40b3f794669533af82fec0>`_

[BUGFIX] Display site import step error messages immediately
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The error message occurring during a failed site import in the setup
site import step are not displayed until after a refresh of the page.
This happens because flash messages are used instead of a exception.

Fixes: NEOS-758
Depends: Ifbba8d4c45b87a6ec171f3fe72bbc093c7b93722

* Commit: `8929738 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8929738e2f6577b3f964128be3ed3397975653e0>`_

[BUGFIX] Version upgrades leads to a broken backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Existing users experience a broken backend between Neos upgrades due to
the backend resources being cached in their browser.

To prevent this problem a bust header is added to the resource paths,
based on the Javascript & CSS built files when using the minified
versions.

Fixes: NEOS-1202

* Commit: `0cff71b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0cff71b5e997956c6f8147e9da7283576b52d080>`_

[BUGFIX] DimensionMenuImplementation uses configured dimension
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before this change configuring the dimension to use for the menu had no
effect, since the dimension name was hardcoded to "language".

* Commit: `4dcdbe5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4dcdbe5970bd63debcc5e800c8229226073be5f7>`_

[BUGFIX] SiteImport should persist Workspace and Site
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With ``Id5d17fd64a744453e7bbc430fdea0fcc0761071e`` it seems
that finally only Nodes get persisted in persistEntities().
To fulfill database constraints while adding Nodes we
need to have the Workspace and Site already persisted when
starting to import Nodes.

Fixes: NEOS-1208

* Commit: `298f4f6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/298f4f6351670cf94d761806c83fec46bc84811c>`_

[BUGFIX] Moving node to a new parent and back makes it disappear
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When moving a node to a new parent and back to it's original parent
again makes it disappear. This happens because the `NodeOperations`
move method checks if there already exists a node in that location
in any context. Since there is a shadow node in it's original place,
that returns true and thus a new name is generated to avoid a conflict.
Problem is that the shadow node and the node will then share the
identifier on the same level, which leads to the node disappearing.

Fixes: NEOS-1203

* Commit: `dd2de8d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/dd2de8d8976b298c59590d993a2d87724909faae>`_

[TASK] Adjust tests to lowercase only node paths
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the `NodeRenamingTest` to the TYPO3CR change only
allowing lowercase node paths.

Related: NEOS-1195

* Commit: `caaeb15 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/caaeb156e1232bb6604639fded6680d6f2dbfae9>`_

[TASK] Re-use signal for `nodePropertyChanged` to flush route cache
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `a7c8c34 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a7c8c347f0ce46af42b3f7f1b610fa9c15165abd>`_

[BUGFIX] Deleting inline element breaks if title doesn't contain tags
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression was introduced in `Ib5ae1224445d19316717bacda3732ddfff8c3a1c`
causing the deletion of inline elements to break if the title property of
the element wasn't wrapped in a HTML tag.

Related: NEOS-1125

* Commit: `cd565fd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cd565fd64610e20991d375c3ff55b1e506866bd1>`_

[BUGFIX] Updating page in node tree can lead to problems
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a page is being edited in the node tree and the url is changed
on the server side, the link in the tree is out of sync.

Additionally if the title of the current page is changed, the page
is not reloaded.

To prevent these situations the URL of the node in the tree is updated,
as well as the title and if it's the current page it's reloaded automatically.

Fixes: NEOS-1197

* Commit: `ebd73c2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ebd73c2b9ab7b47a0ea5950136944bb10c632072>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent unnecessary double persist when updating node in tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a node is being edited in one of the tres in the navigate component,
the inline element is synchronized causing an additional update call to
the server. This call is unnecessary since that state has already been saved.

Fixes: NEOS-1196

* Commit: `05831ee <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/05831ee71fbf2caacbb5ff1be178110736349a34>`_

[BUGFIX] Moving nodes down on the same level makes it disappear
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NodeOperations should check if a move stays inside the same parent
because then it is just a reorder which means we do not need to
generate a new node name for the node (which generates a wrong
result anyway as the node name exists - but it is the node moved).

Releaes: master, 1.2
Fixes: NEOS-1199

* Commit: `e25ac47 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e25ac47fc623e1e929d2100f6e24e6eba90fe3b0>`_

[TASK] Add missing icon for plugin view
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The plugin view content element doesn't have a default
icon and therefore uses the fallback icon. This is not
helpful since the element cannot be recognized easily.

Even though plugins have the same icon by default it's
still better since that would relate them. Additionally
most plugins would a specific icon instead of the default.

* Commit: `eb61c91 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/eb61c913aec5817a86f9faa2b5857e43fb381236>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow overriding ArgumentNamespace for plugins
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently it is not possible to set a plugin ``argumentNamespace``
from TypoScript as the order of resolution will always result in an
early return because the NodeType will be resolved.
This fixes the resolution order.

Fixes: NEOS-1097

* Commit: `8ac7255 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8ac7255c88ede4bfbbfe56c5c0eabc816a8e8593>`_

[TASK] Root.ts2 not required anymore for a site
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A default TypoScript for a site can be defined in separate package and
so a site doesn't require a Root.ts2 to run.

Related: NEOS-1120

* Commit: `de75219 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/de75219d39fecb32e65b89142e12b655911daa4d>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove trailing slash from _assetMetadataEndpointUri URI
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

All other endpoints get called without trailing slash,
and it's really not needed there, but it can break rewrite
rules on some sites.

* Commit: `def4f39 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/def4f39d6698c5fd00d647fab12c0248be133750>`_

[TASK] Add date to 1.1.3 changelog header
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `7a7bc4a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7a7bc4a3e1b6a0d89c88b8d0caa48f70721eb9bb>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Neos 1.1.3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/30/

* Commit: `d5e9e32 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d5e9e326fb2204f92eafedb2dc2c14752547df2d>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Menu content element breaks without items
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression introduced in `I472f502b59ee538305e06d4635ea0a91d615e2b9`
caused the menu content element to throw an exception since the
backport of the change didn't account for the change of the
security view helper.

Related: NEOS-1124

* Commit: `2d36452 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/2d36452956ef7492a68a67834d9275b2bfd1e4f3>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Node querying must be case insensitive
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression in `I890ea84ec26f1fba00f72b200e959e3c0fc30f94` lead to
creation of auto created child nodes failing if they contained
uppercase characters in their name.

Additionally hard coded queries for node paths weren't lowercased
automatically to avoid breaking changes.

To prevent these scenarios the node querying is always done with
lowercase paths automatically and the auto created child node names are
processed with the `renderValidNodeName`.

Related: NEOS-1195
Related: NEOS-1081

* Commit: `20a36fa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/20a36fa6fb2debafbd4d0557f1f5510966807c54>`_

[TASK] Add runtime cache to getSubNodeTypes()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a runtime cache to NodeTypeManager::getSubNodeTypes(),
drastically lowering the calls to NodeType::isOfType().

In my test setup the number of calls to isOfType() went down from
over 212.000 to a little over 3000.

* Commit: `d02cd66 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/d02cd668008e003f7f840399fb837d752cf11df1>`_

[BUGFIX] Check if $dateTime is a DateTime object before calling format()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds 2 checks to see if $dateTime is really a DateTime
object before calling the format() method. The lack of this check could
cause fatal errors when publishing pages after clearing the hidden
after / before date time.

Resolves: NEOS-1219

* Commit: `2911cd1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/2911cd1dd30f89e82c21d13eaf94ab63811ad874>`_

[BUGFIX] `findByProperties` now allow directly on `pathStartingPoint`
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When giving the `findByProperties` a `pathStartingPoint` it should also
allow nodes with that exact path in addition to child nodes as results.

Fixes: NEOS-1212

* Commit: `f3d80c8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/f3d80c8de81135c4e42db9382c25ea454d048d0f>`_

[TASK] Optimize queries by path by using the path hash
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Changes the `addPathConstraintToQueryBuilder` method to use the
path hash instead of the path for querying to optimize the performance.

Already done for master in `I49c325ff587cb6e01cf785a99a0b756ffe8fbbdc`.

* Commit: `e8204f1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/e8204f15f483cbe2dbd1fa046170ef927601ee67>`_

[BUGFIX] Compatibility with PHP 5.3 in NodeDataRepository
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In `Id5d17fd64a744453e7bbc430fdea0fcc0761071e` a regression
was introduced, breaking PHP 5.3 compatibility due to the
usage of the short syntax of arrays.

* Commit: `30a8fbc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/30a8fbc93632a4714a8738487e436dbb22f6e07a>`_

[TASK] Improve query performance by avoiding DISTINCT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes queries in the NodeDataRepository so that no joins to
the NodeDimensions happen, instead a subquery is used.
Due to this the DISTINCT function can be avoided which results in
MySQL using no temporary table (which in case of NodeData will
always be a disk based temporary table).

A typical query for childnodes of a certain type in a specific
dimension is about 3x faster on the demo site dataset.

Additionally the findOnPath() query now uses the pathHash instead
of the path.

* Commit: `c813aa8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/c813aa8530967a143c63c29570996b87de38d6f8>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Minor changes to improve CR performance
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Calls to ``persistEntities()`` does not iterate over all nodes
anymore and ``findHighestIndexInLevel()`` uses a caching property.

Additionally logic to create the workspace in a ``Context`` was
streamlined to use less queries.

This is breaking if you rely on the fact that persists are triggered
for each newly created Node. This was a side effect of assigning
the highest index to the newly created Node and is now no longer
needed in all cases. Therefor tests need to be adapted so that
they do no longer rely on this behavior.

Fixes: NEOS-1189

* Commit: `f7a16cc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/f7a16cc55e7f7757d777f0c88cb97ed2988cae85>`_

[BUGFIX] Incorrect handling of associative arrays in NodeConverter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Node properties of type array should convert incoming JSON objects
into associative arrays instead of stdClass objects.

Fixes: NEOS-1194

* Commit: `65dce26 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/65dce26ad1d58a703b6cfcb3a191aa6e12736c96>`_

[TASK] `NodeService` method to check if nodepath can be used for node
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds method `nodePathAvailableForNode()` to the `NodeService` which can be
used to check if a node can be allowed to be placed in a given path.
This is needed to ensure that a node can be moved back to a location where a
shadow node has been created in it's former place.

Related: NEOS-1203

* Commit: `905c073 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/905c0731189e3e6a9f8f5ede499e66e00fdab654>`_

[!!!][BUGFIX] Node path should always be lowercase
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The change `I4649436ae6dfa2f386d9c5b656680ba87be25002` had some
undesired side effects by allowing uppercase characters in generated
node paths. In general all node paths should be lowercase
to avoid similar issues. Since the node path is primarily internal,
it's fine to force it to be lowercase.

This is breaking in case you have nodes with names that have uppercase
letters and they are referenced by their path somewhere.

Fixes: NEOS-1195
Related: NEOS-1081

* Commit: `773d592 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/773d592d9cee1ee244f95d38dd6cf9b5cf386045>`_

[BUGFIX] Don't generate NodeTemplate node name from the title property
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The node name shouldn't be generated from the title property since
it's internal and causes conflicts if the title changes later on.

* Commit: `027dd69 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/027dd692c802a2e5db68960b321080ad4956e459>`_

[TASK] Add some additional Behat scenarios about moving nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds some more scenarios about moving nodes. In fact they cannot
show the bug explained in NEOS-1199 as that is a result of the
Neos NodeOperations service behaving wrongly.
Still those additional tests might be useful.

Related: NEOS-1199

* Commit: `bbb6b8d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/bbb6b8dfd7f2c2d1270142f3b8b5445c910562bc>`_

[TASK] Add some additional behat scenarios about moving nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds some more scenarios about moving nodes. In fact they cannot
show the bug explained in NEOS-1199 as that is a result of the
Neos NodeOperations service behaving wrongly.
Still those additional tests might be useful.

Related: NEOS-1199

* Commit: `d6308e6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/d6308e66cc68480a7149a9ff20493834b9cade52>`_

[BUGFIX] Moving node should move across all dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression introduced in `Ic855e10d7c6bd7fb73a5cb0926f8035910a790fe`
changed the behavior so it no longer moved all node variants in different
dimensions when moving a node.

Related: NEOS-1013

* Commit: `dafd9b7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/dafd9b7aa20f05fa31e25af25d26d886756d3f13>`_

[BUGFIX] NodeData not replaced if setPath isn't called recursively
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression introduced in `Ic855e10d7c6bd7fb73a5cb0926f8035910a790fe`
caused the NodeData not to be replaced with a potential shadow node
when the path was changed unless the recursive flag was set.

Related: NEOS-1013

* Commit: `5a0dc54 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/5a0dc54e5a6a2b90e2b3e3713ddb878f3da10ce8>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Safeguard against non-existing context variables
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The correct handling of TS context for uncached segments (see change
http://review.typo3.org/38597) had the adverse side affect that in 1.2
rendering failed, because "account" was no longer defined. On master the
error does not become visible, since the account is no longer in the
context directly, but accessed via an Eel helper.

This change adds a safeguard against unset context variables and makes
them available with a value of NULL.

Fixes: NEOS-1217

* Commit: `a6d43a9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/a6d43a9696c2eeca01edb2da45e96837c0a428a2>`_

[BUGFIX] Uncached segment use configured context on first render
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Uncached segments need to define the rendering context they need, but
on first rendering they still had access to the full context which
made it harder to spot errors in the context configuration as they
only appeared on the second rendering.
Now the context is adjusted to the configuration even for the first
rendering.

Fixes: NEOS-1127

* Commit: `9fca588 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/9fca58813acbb4d3ba891986b3b1479cd582a051>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

