==================
1.2.6 (2015-05-10)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update PHPUnit and vfsStream dependencies
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updates PHPUnit from 4.3 to 4.6 and vfsStream from 1.4 to 1.5.

* Commit: `c5ed333 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/c5ed333d7c0956f0356038f99f1a5a158f67b2ce>`_

[TASK] Revert composer manifest to dev versions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/42/

* Commit: `22099ca <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/22099ca3a0bd413fdad03013d462dea031d9ba55>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/49/

* Commit: `9e4fa2e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9e4fa2e9d3bf5ab61bf3be5b8dc7b35af2356324>`_

[BUGFIX] Take multi-dimensional node paths into account
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``RouteCacheAspect`` didn't correctly split the nodepath into
parts for multiple dimensions and so routing caches would fail
to be flushed when using multiple dimensions.

* Commit: `0ea3b99 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0ea3b99afb63c7c4b8fb10ae535feee933621c2a>`_

[BUGFIX] Flush content cache of source collection when moving content
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a node being duplicated when cutting from one content
collection and pasting into another one. This happens since
the content cache for the previous collection isn't cleared
when the node is moved.

Depends: I865c6a8ebd6a8427730f03e995c14e0fbf2dba62

Fixes: NEOS-1224

* Commit: `e728d31 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e728d312c47d7d5d77d2114ed7a6b2eea6a06e91>`_

[BUGFIX] Fetch external fonts via HTTPS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the Login and Error Views of Neos include Google fonts via
HTTP leading to ``Mixed Content`` errors when accessing the site over
HTTPS.

This patch adjusts ``Error.scss`` and ``Login.scss`` accordingly.

Note: We don't use protocol relative URLs by intention, because those
are deprecated for security reasons.

Fixes: NEOS-1100

* Commit: `d85b39c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d85b39c19b87e0d4981ee2ec6e898cb265c18418>`_

[BUGFIX] Add Namespace for NeosException
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In lines 88 and 91 NeosException is used, but which is not associated with a
namespace. Therefore, there was an error if the appropriate package was not
activated.

Fixes: NEOS-1240

* Commit: `fe3292a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fe3292a4fef5afc8ba9c5f37df4c36434f3fa087>`_

[BUGFIX] Adjust IntegratingJavaScriptSlider cookbook
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since the TypoScript paths changed for 1.2 the cookbook doesn't
reflect realities anymore and missed the important part of including
the additional TypoScript file to the Root.ts2.

* Commit: `9bc32f7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9bc32f7ea2dbfb3d43adba916df7c836baa2e902>`_

[BUGFIX] Documentation should document existing TypoScript objects
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The TypoScript reference mentions two TypoScript objects in the
``TYPO3.Media`` namespace but that doesn't exist. Those objects are
in fact in the ``TYPO3.Neos`` namespace. The change reflects that.

Fixes: NEOS-1099

* Commit: `043d90f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/043d90f83675c00a71e5e87359fea177e99a284b>`_

[TASK] Remove unnecessary usages of ``TYPO3`` in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes the usage of ``TYPO3`` in the titles of various documentation
since the context is known, it's superfluous.

* Commit: `6dc8693 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6dc8693fd41d1b98500b66fb2074d70f602aafa1>`_

[BUGFIX] Escape class names in ContentStructure documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `a48d092 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a48d09269c0ba5feeb1c23f616b304ffa14f605b>`_

[BUGFIX] DimensionMenu should work on pages hidden in menu
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As the dimension menu uses code from the normal menu it also
ignores documents that have the ``hiddenInMenu`` flag set.
To make the ``DimensionMenu`` work on pages that have the flag
set it needs to ignore that.

* Commit: `f15aadd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f15aaddceec9e6c02f87427520f5dbef568e83e9>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] `BeforeNodeMove` & `AfterNodeMove` signals
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Backports two signals for node moving needed to solve a
bug with content cache flushing.

Related: NEOS-1224

* Commit: `ea8a2e9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/ea8a2e920ed62bf2cb4ec2bafe64d21c7bac1803>`_

[BUGFIX] ChildNode constraints check needs to be lowercased
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since all node paths are lowercase the constraints check for
childNodes must be done against the lowercased node name to match
properly. To be more precise any changes applied to the configured
nodeName in
``\\TYPO3\\TYPO3CR\\Domain\\Model\\NodeType::getAutoCreatedChildNodes()``
must also be applied to incoming node names in
``\\TYPO3\\TYPO3CR\\Domain\\Model\\NodeType::allowsGrandchildNodeType()``

Fixes: NEOS-1234

* Commit: `63cdafc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/63cdafc1e3edaf849bcfd6f7f608713c3dec6db8>`_

[BUGFIX] Reducing nodes by dimensions works for nodes without
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `NodeDataRepository` filters query results with the method
`reduceNodeVariantsByWorkspacesAndDimensions` which works as
long as all nodes in your database have the same dimensions.
Especially the case that you have nodes with some dimensions and
nodes without any dimensions is not handled well if no dimensions
are used (configured).

Given you have two variants of a node, one with dimensions one
without. If you ask the `NodeDataRepository` for a node with that
identifier and no dimensions it would (wrongly) return the node with
dimensions. This change adapts the matching algorithm for the specific
case of matching against empty dimension values.

* Commit: `9ec05cf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/9ec05cff5f5787a70c87d422bf3752334002f9ec>`_

[BUGFIX] ImportService should import with lowercase paths
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The change I890ea84ec26f1fba00f72b200e959e3c0fc30f94 introduced a
regression for importing sites from the Sites.xml. Paths in there
would be used as is, so nodes with paths containing uppercase
characters could never be found.

This change adds the necessary lowercasing of paths found in the
imported Sites.xml file.

Fixes: NEOS-1237

* Commit: `5618bc2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/5618bc2a8e76e1a54dfaf3b3ecbbb0352ce8fd74>`_

[TASK] Optimize `renderValidNodeName` utility method
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Checks the given name against the name pattern before doing
expensive unnecessary transliteration.

Related: NEOS-1237

* Commit: `bee4b4d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/bee4b4d9eb5608305103380ef91ecbdcc8baf390>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix finding persistence relations on PostgreSQL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The method findByRelationWithGivenPersistenceIdentifierAndObjectTypeMap()
could not work on PostgreSQL, due to the use of bin2hex when storing
ObjectArray types.

This change fixes that by encoding as needed when running on PostgreSQL.

Related: NEOS-1062

* Commit: `255491a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/255491ae7d4f7d5009d155554949e0ddaadc3ee2>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fix spelling error in error message
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: FLOW-112

* Commit: `b12fc90 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/b12fc9065be136a88be90916f0b40070fdd355bd>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

