==================
1.2.7 (2015-05-30)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Pin doctrine/migrations to tagged working version
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With doctrine/migrations not having had a stable branch for years,
Flow always required dev-master. Now that conflicts with the version
of doctrine/orm used with Flow 2.x, so we need to pin the required
version to the last known working state.

Unfortunately this needs to be repeated in the root manifest.

Related: FLOW-300

* Commit: `9b04653 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/9b0465357622c0e5ce73b8b6ec8a760a4fc1798d>`_

[TASK] Revert composer manifest to dev versions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/49/

* Commit: `0ae1b96 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/0ae1b969a5499524094af35c684d47ab901125eb>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/52/

* Commit: `2083b67 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2083b67d9f5169fb1500d2766f22bbe6f8b8054a>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove illegal character from ContentModuleBootstrap.js
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This character leads to a javascript error 'unexpected identifier'
while loading the unminified sources.

* Commit: `6f050fe <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6f050fe2eae22ad6162342b38bd38a8a7e1f6665>`_

[BUGFIX] NodeWrappingHandler should not rely on "site" in context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The NodeWrappingHandler checked for existence of "node" in the TypoScript
context but then accessed "site" which might not be available. In fact
that is not needed and "node" is enough. This avoids errors in uncached
rendering where "site" might not be part of the context.

* Commit: `43be7b7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/43be7b7ce075fc55ec3fa17efffeb15d745abe6f>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Fix findByProperties() on PostgreSQL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds the needed encoding to the search term when using
PostgreSQL, so that the search can find results.

Fixes: NEOS-1295

* Commit: `60cfb82 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/60cfb8230b21b2cb5f55c199b327dfc84a40b0d3>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

