==================
1.2.8 (2015-06-03)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Revert composer manifest to dev versions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/52/

* Commit: `262dfae <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/262dfaeb139bbc82d0d9a64f6612250689ab81ae>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/55/

* Commit: `f50bdc9 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f50bdc98ee9c04c318e5504b2cc6d9528b19b1f1>`_

[BUGFIX] Aloha configuration gets applied to nested properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjust selector for applying Aloha configuration, to only match
those properties that belong to the same node and not descendants of
nested node's wrapping.

Resolves: NEOS-1316

* Commit: `07988a0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/07988a0f693ac73ff6898aa090b5268c6777af7a>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix wrong cache invalidation message
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The message for a DescendantOf_* tag referred to a wrong node, this is
fixed by this change.

* Commit: `3c63de7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/3c63de78c1a16175c826fd2eb42aa085dd8a0d7f>`_

[TASK] Add missing ChangeLogs to documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2f1c190 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2f1c190e161e7845ca6992c01159b3c06697c7e0>`_

[BUGFIX] Live workspace shortcut breaks when having multiple dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using multiple content dimensions, the live workspace shortcut next
to the fullscreen button, opens a broken URL because the dimensions are
not stripped correctly.

Fixes: NEOS-1206

* Commit: `2025972 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/202597274e793d8be5fc0ca4219f6351a17db5cd>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow ``PluginViews`` to encapsulate multiple actions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the ``PluginViewImplementation`` only evaluates the default
controller/action pair that is configured in the ``controllerActions``
setting of the corresponding NodeType.
Additional controllers/actions are ignored so that it's not possible to
invoke them.

This is fixed by falling back to the default controller/action only if
no explicit action is requested.

Fixes: NEOS-1311

* Commit: `ff40c01 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ff40c01b593236ff0059bb26bd08977157e5ac31>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent syntax error for backend in latest stable Chrome
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to a bug in the recent stable version of Chrome the backend breaks
occasionally when initalizing. This only happens when using the minified
JavaScript build. The bug is caused by a non UTF-8 unicode character
in the CodeMirror library using a UTF-16 character, which causes the
bug in Chrome.

Updating CodeMirror to the latest minor version of 3.* fixes the issue,
which is a good idea in any case.
The issue is already fixed in Chrome, however it may take a while for a new
stable version to be rolled out.

Fixes: NEOS-1312

* Commit: `14c9773 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/14c9773f0ee3df7ba8f82e83c4fec7a418dda550>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

