==================
1.2.9 (2015-07-02)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Remove ``typo3-ci/typo3flow`` package from dev requirements
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to dependency conflicts (required version only compatible with 2.0),
a problem occurs during proxy building resulting in the error::

  "SimplyAdmire\\ComposerPlugins\\Installers\\PhpCodesnifferStandardInstaller"
  could not be loaded properly for reflection

Additionally the dependency is already moved from of the distribution
to an independent subfolder in the 2.0+ branch.

For existing installations running 1.2, you can remove the package with
the following commands::

  composer remove --no-update "typo3-ci/typo3flow"
  composer update

In case you still want to use the ``typo3-ci/typo3flow`` package you can include
it in a subfolder like it's done in 2.0, but require "~2.2.0" instead of "dev-master".
See https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/blob/refs/heads/2.0:/Build/PhpCodesniffer/composer.json

* Commit: `4fe9f68 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/4fe9f683c76998c8aa0f6bbd715c588252408092>`_

[TASK] Revert composer manifest to dev versions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/55/

* Commit: `fd5be7d <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/fd5be7d741ef242ce0fd98d4214c02424764a7ea>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://jenkins.neos.io/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/60/

* Commit: `6432c64 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6432c643b890b41e50ebe12b966c1bfb43ef61f7>`_

[BUGFIX] Dimension menu broken on hidden pages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The dimension menu should show the translated version of pages even
when they are hidden in menus. A regression with the change
``I50c5abf9d1dc15a9abad8042b74eee9646e8b166``.

Fixes: NEOS-1355

* Commit: `a870b4c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a870b4ca9f08c466f35379a7f085a7283467adce>`_

[BUGFIX] ``PluginViews`` with error messages can be selected in backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If an error occurred inside a plugin view element the message was
rendered as plain text without any wrap. Because of that the item could
not be selected in the backend any more.

The solution is to wrap the message in a p-tag for as it is already
done if the ``PluginView`` is not configured at all.

Fixes: NEOS-1322

* Commit: `26d9100 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/26d910054c805527190659997a55de95ecc6bdd9>`_

[TASK] Remove unused requirejs path
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d24a332 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d24a33287295a70f29205316824706ca9832e420>`_

[TASK] Adjust TYPO3 Neos to just Neos in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the documentation–where it makes sense–to use just Neos
instead of TYPO3 Neos.

Changelogs and release notes have been left unchanged since they should
be "historically correct".

* Commit: `c4513dd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c4513ddcde37a0c987c1e8f0de2be9e5ec5d6655>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix PDF rendering errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the markup of the options documentation on node types.

This not only uses definition lists that are better readable than deeply
nested lists, it also fixes a rendering error when producing PDF (the
infamous "too deeply nested").

Some rST warnings are fixed along the way.

* Commit: `055343c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/055343cc2471438065b3f2b654281a935ee87315>`_

[TASK] Show version and release in front matter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b8c108b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b8c108b2483e1bc59141e71b4ad6408ea803c860>`_

[TASK] Exclude changelogs from PDF rendering
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This saves some 600+ pages in the generated PDF, cutting down on the
time needed to render, download, ... it.

* Commit: `7d7c61c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7d7c61c43ca19b012ea6da79a7e38a90fb41fc60>`_

[TASK] Rename Index.rst to index.rst
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is our workaround for an issue with rtfd.org so the documentation
can be browsed when it has been rendered there.

(See https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/1279 for details.)

* Commit: `a1e3659 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a1e36598337f63df2e6b8e8776d73744ce13f5eb>`_

[TASK] Switch to plain Sphinx build configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Switches to a more standard setup for rendering rST using Sphinx. A
simple ``make html`` renders the documentation, if sphinx is installed.

The ``conf.py`` contains a tweak to allow using the RTD theme without
confusing the renderer over at RDT itself.

* Commit: `1c3b6df <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1c3b6df1b7669c61852262472b8c947f1b7dabbf>`_

[TASK] Add date to titles for 1.1.5 & 1.1.6 change logs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `7ca33a4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7ca33a427e37767178c795c12cba6bf00600b607>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Neos 1.1.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/56/

* Commit: `a516850 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a516850c5af0b69f6c6a05eef1d6b01033a675e4>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Menu cache configuration is missing entryTag for the Menu node itself
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When some properties of ``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Menu`` node are changed
the caches would not get flushed, as entryTags configuration are missing
the entry tag for Menu node itself.

* Commit: `15f44c2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/15f44c2a77a960d3d4f8f081591266a1c65592ec>`_

[BUGFIX] Add cache definition to ``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Menu``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Menu`` is missing cache definition.
Add cache definition to invalidate cache entry when any node
of type ``TYPO3.Neos:Document`` changes.

* Commit: `68800b4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/68800b497cc43be3a5805521b20752d90cb9ed49>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Support negated instanceof FlowQuery filter operation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression introduced in another fix with the change
``Icce97f6e0f210353f5123edd4f8c5a868f7134ea`` lead to incorrect
matching of negated instanceof filters for node types.

Related: NEOS-1348

* Commit: `7c3cc6a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/7c3cc6a39646795f57d2e09ef571af1766235044>`_

[BUGFIX] Support multiple filters in FlowQuery children operation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to incorrect handling of multiple Fizzle filters in the custom
optimization in the FlowQuery children operation, multiple filters
give incorrect results. Instead now all filters are taken into
account and optimized individually if possible.

Fixes: NEOS-1348

* Commit: `43e9757 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/43e9757a8b4f1578711b5895fa7f091870fa914c>`_

[BUGFIX] Node path availability should be determined correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The method
``\\TYPO3\\TYPO3CR\\Domain\\Service\\NodeService::nodePathAvailableForNode()``
checks if a given path can be used by a node and relies on
``nodePathExistsInAnyContext()`` for doing so. But as the node path is
not available if the path exists in any context the return value must be
negated in order to return the correct result.

* Commit: `781677d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/781677dc27067178f1fd83ce520c115e9b16d61c>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Overriding ``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes`` node types not working
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to missing dependency on the ``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes`` package,
the multi column overriding didn't work correctly.

* Commit: `388a42a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/388a42acd46461fb43299988452dd0fdb4e94007>`_

