========================
2.0.0-beta4 (2015-07-07)
========================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update composer manifest for 2.0.x-dev
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/57/

* Commit: `ae19b81 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/ae19b811a31a2138508ce2eb3b84023b9cf3ce0d>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://jenkins.neos.io/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/61/

* Commit: `ded06e7 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ded06e7b4d80c07f326c4477495deb5e04747147>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove faulty, old code migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The removed migration was a pre 1.0 migration changing
TypoScript prototypes. The names of the prototypes have
changed further and names could be used in userland code 
and so mess up the TypoScript. Any pre 1.0 projects
still in the wild would need to migrate this manually from now.

* Commit: `5aab8b5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5aab8b5ce81647b672218b76c7024ee7875524f3>`_

[BUGFIX] Bust argument for backend assets escaped
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

After ``I8672d4ee98e84989714bb5229de8144f1a2dadce`` resource paths are
rawurlencoded, so adding a parameter to the resource view helper results
in it being escaped. This breaks the bust argument for the built backend
asset files ```ContentModule-built.js``` and ```Includes-built.css```

Related: FLOW-321

* Commit: `92809ff <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/92809fffe3098427cce9feab7a8a7ee2162e681a>`_

[BUGFIX] Dimension menu broken on hidden pages
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The dimension menu should show the translated version of pages even
when they are hidden in menus. A regression with the change
``I50c5abf9d1dc15a9abad8042b74eee9646e8b166``.

Fixes: NEOS-1355

* Commit: `8d33057 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8d330573ad824a67d7a9ccc336636dadb85c02c9>`_

[BUGFIX] Too many missing translation logs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To allow fallbacks to translations configured on supertypes
of nodetypes we need to call the translate method twice which
would result in a 'Missing translation' warning even though the
fallback translation is found.

This change overwrites the default Ember.Logger behavior and adds
a mute flag to prevent unneeded logs.

Related: NEOS-437

* Commit: `a284ed1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a284ed170ebccd1e4538503dba5c8f6a5ac4fa0f>`_

[TASK] mark ContentDimensionPresetSource as singleton
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is needed in order to inject fake configurations into it
during Behat tests. See the related change in TYPO3CR where
this is used.

Related: NEOS-1345

(cherry picked from commit 4e64cf13e55ffcbd4af4b3c5dbc8e5ccd56eb35d)

* Commit: `95b34df <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/95b34dfc032003a4eca361e3849648f23a8db66e>`_

[BUGFIX] Selecting editable requires a second click
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fix regression caused by ``I6f04b5eed47193a5322514be67d179c593ed1ba8``
where editables are not selected on first click. This happens because
when focussing a new element the active editables are deselected, but
the newly focussed editable is focussed before the update of the
selected element and thus deselected for the newly selected element.

Introduce ``deselectEditables`` option for ``updateSelection()``,
to only try to deselect editables when it's desired.

* Commit: `0461bf6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0461bf6bd9109805850f87b8714cdc3ffcaa3172>`_

[TASK] Add Khmer language to Backend interface selector
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This also changes the format of language label from just the local
language to [local language - how it is called in English]

Example: "Dansk - Danish"

Resolves: NEOS-1336

* Commit: `265bf51 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/265bf515f2a46fe988ca03cb0fbab30814ac5def>`_

[BUGFIX] ContentCollectionRenderer should not taint Node context
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ContentCollection also renders removed nodes while in editing mode,
so publishing can pick up those nodes and give a correct count of changes
available for publishing.

Without this change removed and non removed nodes are fetched in one
expression, but that results in all visible nodes to have a "tainted"
context that permits seeing removed nodes. This results in removed nodes
being fetched if a content element fetches and renders sub nodes without
using the ContentCase renderer (as that adds a class that hides removed
elements).

This change fixes the problem by separating the retrieval of removed nodes
from that of visible nodes. That way only the removed nodes get the
tainted context but as they are not rendered visible that won't be
a problem.

* Commit: `d9bc480 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d9bc4802c60085e18ead80052da69c9f684d2ced>`_

[TASK] Include MultiSite documentation into TOC tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes the MultiSite documentation (stub) available in the TOC tree
of the documentation, so it actually shows up and is linked to.

* Commit: `d55eebe <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d55eebebae844bae3c50d69d2f7da61715b1106b>`_

[TASK] Remove unused requirejs path
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `966b552 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/966b552e4d619a3be486ad0eaadff1078b3eb13e>`_

[BUGFIX] ``PluginViews`` with error messages can be selected in backend
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If an error occurred inside a plugin view element the message was
rendered as plain text without any wrap. Because of that the item could
not be selected in the backend any more.

The solution is to wrap the message in a p-tag for as it is already
done if the ``PluginView`` is not configured at all.

Fixes: NEOS-1322

* Commit: `87c2935 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/87c2935539aabd7eeee59d649282d09be2ffa550>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix use of undefined jQuery in NodeActions.js
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression from I66802b9d7319422037b19bbd7848afd0b5c4e6a4 which added
the use of jQuery, but only $ is defined.

Related: NEOS-613

* Commit: `178a37f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/178a37f6a6c7632cf1fe973599fb44fe694ed086>`_

[BUGFIX] Inserting content elements with nested content elements breaks
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a regression introduced with the inserting/pasting inline content
without reloading the page, caused insert of elements containing nested
elements to break.

Related: NEOS-613

* Commit: `0ae6775 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/0ae6775d16a1abbb4ccdae6ea2a81335c526cd6a>`_

[TASK] Adjust TYPO3 Neos to just Neos in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the documentation–where it makes sense–to use just Neos
instead of TYPO3 Neos.

Changelogs and release notes have been left unchanged since they should
be "historically correct".

* Commit: `b5cadd3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b5cadd374e0b1a722b56a8ee24169a7bde445641>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix PDF rendering errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the markup of the options documentation on node types.

This not only uses definition lists that are better readable than deeply
nested lists, it also fixes a rendering error when producing PDF (the
infamous "too deeply nested").

Some rST warnings are fixed along the way.

* Commit: `7c46b35 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7c46b35045049967f39d863dee83c9b6d7def07c>`_

[TASK] Show version and release in front matter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `b2e4434 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b2e4434ea3d7a085b56c6fcc8d5459f6553d1deb>`_

[TASK] Exclude changelogs from PDF rendering
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This saves some 600+ pages in the generated PDF, cutting down on the
time needed to render, download, ... it.

* Commit: `6c87780 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6c877803994b28927e5894aabf493324615165b8>`_

[TASK] Rename Index.rst to index.rst
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is our workaround for an issue with rtfd.org so the documentation
can be browsed when it has been rendered there.

(See https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/1279 for details.)

* Commit: `148e296 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/148e29698d63ef6b2fd8291b091b6dc605b162f9>`_

[TASK] Switch to plain Sphinx build configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Switches to a more standard setup for rendering rST using Sphinx. A
simple ``make html`` renders the documentation, if sphinx is installed.

The ``conf.py`` contains a tweak to allow using the RTD theme without
confusing the renderer over at RDT itself.

* Commit: `f1d5264 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f1d5264f83e16e68a70f82a51c4221f18959e064>`_

[TASK] Allow pasting copied node multiple times
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of clearing the clipboard after copying content/documents,
the copied node is kept in the clipboard to allow pasting it multiple
times. When cutting a node it's still cleared like before.

Resolves: NEOS-1319

* Commit: `c468045 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c468045b9a452ae763c30a3bdb1eac5e58e51400>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Remove faulty, old code migration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The removed code migration renamed various TypoScript prototypes
from a pre 1.0 state to a 1.0 and up compatible state. Some of those
prototypes have changed names again in the meantime (TYPO3.Neos:Template)
rendering this migration breaking.
Pre 1.0 projects need to adjust those changes manually from now.

* Commit: `7c5497e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/7c5497e8431c5f9761f82c873d6298a6604c46e8>`_

[BUGFIX] Menu cache configuration is missing entryTag for the Menu node itself
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When some properties of ``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Menu`` node are changed
the caches would not get flushed, as entryTags configuration are missing
the entry tag for Menu node itself.

* Commit: `9efa6a4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/9efa6a42a81c066a90a3c3d34ae995f8ee17a643>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Support negated instanceof FlowQuery filter operation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A regression introduced in another fix with the change
``Icce97f6e0f210353f5123edd4f8c5a868f7134ea`` lead to incorrect
matching of negated instanceof filters for node types.

Related: NEOS-1348

* Commit: `22e843b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/22e843b91cc8b2bbbcb7cb30e4daa3f0b39d02a6>`_

[BUGFIX] Support multiple filters in FlowQuery children operation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to incorrect handling of multiple Fizzle filters in the custom
optimization in the FlowQuery children operation, multiple filters
give incorrect results. Instead now all filters are taken into
account and optimized individually if possible.

Fixes: NEOS-1348

* Commit: `9229837 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/9229837ebc4481366b31e80fb295353f0255ac71>`_

[FEATURE] Allow to restrict editing by node-dimension
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Example Configuration::

  privilegeTargets:
    'TYPO3\\TYPO3CR\\Security\\Authorization\\Privilege\\Node\\EditNodePrivilege':
      # This privilegeTarget must be *DEFINED* so that we switch to a
      # "whitelist" approach
      'TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org:EditAllNodes':
        matcher: 'TRUE'

      'TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org:EditGerman':
        matcher: 'isInDimensionPreset("language", "de")'
  roles:
    'TYPO3.Neos:Editor':
      privileges:
        -
          privilegeTarget: 'TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org:EditGerman'
          permission: GRANT

This change also marks the ContentDimensionPresetSource a singleton,
to make sure we can override the configuration from within Behat tests.

Also, check the corresponding change in the Neos package.

Resolves: NEOS-1345

* Commit: `ea22df3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/ea22df3d44659485b6797d04e1ff2b3f0b798453>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Set status after sucessfully rendering a TypoScript object
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the bugfix done in ``I8abefe9f8fb399a186d93737e2396dd55fc9c452``
a regression was introduced as the ``lastEvaluationStatus`` is now
considered in processors to allow conditions. But as the status
is not set in a consistent manner you can end up with a successfully
rendered TypoScript object and ``lastEvaluationStatus`` set to FALSE.

This is fixed by setting the status after successfully rendering a
TypoScript object.

* Commit: `57e3cf6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/57e3cf6844300524feaf4e7465c04660ea92645a>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Demo site should "correctly" create footer node
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The demo site created the "footer" child node on the homepage purely from
the ``Sites.xml``. It was not configured in ``NodeTypes.yaml``.
This is not best practice and could break if we introduce functionality
to remove child nodes that are not configured.
Now the homepage of the demo site is a new NodeType that has ``footer``
configured as childNode.

Fixes: NEOS-913

* Commit: `dc0d89d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/dc0d89d9850bdfd693cbaa60eeedd6c01296026a>`_

[TASK] Adjust demo site to simplified FrontendLogin
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adjusts the demo site content to the simplified
``Flowpack.Neos.FrontendLogin`` package by

* Replacing the "/member-area/user-profile" page by a simple
  "/member-area/subpage" (because there is no "user profile" plugin
  any longer).
* Adjusting the explanatory text and example command

See https://github.com/Flowpack/Flowpack.Neos.FrontendLogin/commit/ddf1fea55853cad59b8e4684d548554f161d60cf
for the corresponding change on the FrontendLogin package

Related: NEOS-1340

* Commit: `7080f92 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/7080f920874dd57cadb85c5f0abcd0bcf5f08833>`_

[TASK] Remove unused boostrap view helper namespace
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `9f51fa6 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/9f51fa6469ce48e4aeb77ac3b8adc68c40426283>`_

[BUGFIX] Overriding ``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes`` node types not working
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to missing dependency on the ``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes`` package,
the multi column overriding didn't work correctly.

* Commit: `2e80b3b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/2e80b3b4aeab7c99baab814576c7468b055b4851>`_

