==================
2.0.0-beta3 (2015-06-05)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Do not require dev-master of doctrine/migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With doctrine/migrations not having had a stable branch for years,
Flow always required dev-master. Now that 1.0 is being worked on,
require @dev instead and delegate the version to the Flow package.

Related: FLOW-300

* Commit: `24459b1 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/24459b16dbffb2a93539d509394c96331846c135>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest for 2.0.x-dev
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/51/

* Commit: `5574c50 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/5574c504d7f5543dc4b3b30c6c669da5cc51e4b0>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/57/

* Commit: `8b19b6a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8b19b6a884706cc3a6e21eb8fa16eaaf8db9b148>`_

[BUGFIX] Moving a hidden page throws exception
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Moving a hidden page to a different parent will trigger regeneration
of the uriPathSegment to avoid conflicts with the new sibling nodes.

The closure used to process signals should not be used to create
node contexts as that will probably lead to faulty results. Instead a
new signal in the ``Node`` object is used that delivers Nodes to the new
``UriPathSegmentGenerator`` when changing paths.

Additionally the generation of node uri segments has been moved to a
static utility method.

Depends: I6c9f2bd0a720220225422882680e74dcc15905c3
Depends: Ia539cd3c709a741532c93646ef3eb88cb12c71ea
Depends: I8640f783c949d3046e344912d99e1d4b51ef962f
Resolves: NEOS-1309

* Commit: `bbed90f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/bbed90ff053bc46240a25187b5d345758ed241b9>`_

[BUGFIX] Only the Site Package kickstarted in Setup Tool should be active
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Disables existing Site Packages in case a new package is kickstarted
or a package is imported in the Setup Tool.

This prevents a big variety of errors when people think the Demo Site
is inactive, but is still interacting with the their site because
Settings and NodeTypes are loaded.

Resolves: NEOS-1109

* Commit: `089a6aa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/089a6aab748ba5708b63f0852c1d1edbcb26e21c>`_

[BUGFIX] Translations from other packages then Neos are ignored
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The backend translation changes ignored the labels from external
packages making the node type translation useless. This change
adds a configuration setting so specific sources can be configured
to be included in the xliff.json

Resolves: NEOS-1258

* Commit: `ac48d26 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ac48d26ea50fd0e639ba349e4acb102778074d54>`_

[TASK] Select newly inserted element automatically
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When inserting/pasting content the new elementing should
automatically be selected to speed up the content creation
process. The same behavior takes place when using inline
handles or the structure tree.

Resolves: NEOS-603

* Commit: `e5a48f8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e5a48f823354ba0beb7b7b0aa4804af257bc3130>`_

[TASK] Add date to titles for 1.1.5 & 1.1.6 change logs
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `c18b1f4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c18b1f4fb043b8b65ef297d715fcbf8e96a744ae>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Neos 1.2.8
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/55/

* Commit: `256ddc3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/256ddc3b716e1d14def86a825c5ba9320221ad54>`_

[TASK] Add changelog for TYPO3 Neos 1.1.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://ci.neos.typo3.org/job/TYPO3%20Neos%20Release/56/

* Commit: `37bd4c0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/37bd4c0c06b31f561659e4d6384ed07982f561b5>`_

[BUGFIX] Aloha configuration gets applied to nested properties
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjust selector for applying Aloha configuration, to only match
those properties that belong to the same node and not descendants of
nested node's wrapping.

Resolves: NEOS-1316

* Commit: `ad66946 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ad66946022de9d5b27af41f28e1775309d85ce16>`_

[TASK] Insert content without page reload when creating/pasting
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When new content is created or existing content is pasting using cut or copy,
the page reload is replaced with directly inserting of the content. This is
done to improve user experience for editors when creating/pasting content since
it interrupts the flow, especially when working on long pages with lots of content.

Resolves: NEOS-613

* Commit: `a6c4021 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a6c402139ffc2186a36a76ea0d18ad9b21ce6c54>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix wrong cache invalidation message
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The message for a DescendantOf_* tag referred to a wrong node, this is
fixed by this change.

* Commit: `7c42797 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7c42797b51a1f076bcc941022e953a38da3c7e6c>`_

[BUGFIX] Allow ``PluginViews`` to encapsulate multiple actions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the ``PluginViewImplementation`` only evaluates the default
controller/action pair that is configured in the ``controllerActions``
setting of the corresponding NodeType.
Additional controllers/actions are ignored so that it's not possible to
invoke them.

This is fixed by falling back to the default controller/action only if
no explicit action is requested.

Fixes: NEOS-1311

* Commit: `86f179d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/86f179d423258435f2a9793a126d7937c6723a71>`_

[TASK] Add missing ChangeLogs to documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `fffa741 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fffa7415f5f822352cfaa4e35d8ff9c3072a1338>`_

[BUGFIX] Live workspace shortcut breaks when having multiple dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using multiple content dimensions, the live workspace shortcut next
to the fullscreen button, opens a broken URL because the dimensions are
not stripped correctly.

Fixes: NEOS-1206

* Commit: `4777b6c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4777b6c0ad1c776cc16c3915075b1bccfc6735d4>`_

[BUGFIX] Prevent syntax error for backend in latest stable Chrome
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to a bug in the recent stable version of Chrome the backend breaks
occasionally when initalizing. This only happens when using the minified
JavaScript build. The bug is caused by a non UTF-8 unicode character
in the CodeMirror library using a UTF-16 character, which causes the
bug in Chrome.

Updating CodeMirror to the latest minor version of 3.* fixes the issue,
which is a good idea in any case.
The issue is already fixed in Chrome, however it may take a while for a new
stable version to be rolled out.

Fixes: NEOS-1312

* Commit: `1877bac <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1877bac7912bc4017a267509b5c377e6e34c3084>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix wrong/unexpected NodeType constraints behavior
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes the constraints for ``TYPO3.Neos:ContentCollection`` to
disallow ``TYPO3.Neos:Document`` but allow everything else.

That way, disallowing ``*`` and allowing something more specific in a
NodeType works again as expected, as in::

  'TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:ThreeColumn':
    childNodes:
      'column1':
        constraints:
          nodeTypes:
            '*': FALSE

Fixes: NEOS-1310

* Commit: `c409fb1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c409fb1b3db32b9a1fcba65e68f11c21295d231b>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove inclusion of removed stylesheet file in media browser
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A old removed file was still included in the module leading to a
missing resource being loaded. Additionally an existing file was
configured to load twice.

Related: NEOS-1020

* Commit: `2da4477 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/2da4477b15d3ae9ffb47b8bce817ddcb002f066d>`_

[BUGFIX] ImageEditor should check if image was removed
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In case the image gets removed from the editor an JavaScript
error was thrown due to not checking for a null value before
accessing properties on the editor value. On removal the editor
value property is set to null and then ``__updateValue()`` is
called. This now checks if value is a null value before using
any properties.

Fixes: NEOS-1276

* Commit: `65dfd45 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/65dfd45afceef96dfa381017ca2d263d3737c5b4>`_

[BUGFIX] Give useful error messages in media management
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When an error occurs in an action only a generic error
``FlashMessage`` is rendered. This won't help any users,
therefor we are adding some custom error handling first hiding
which action failed in ``Production`` context because no user
can use that information. But it adds any validation errors
as FlashMessages to the output to give users a hint what they
did wrong.

Fixes: NEOS-264

* Commit: `26cd4c0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/26cd4c07a8594526afde5c1bc363c8cb663bc9bb>`_

[TASK] Code cleanup in node type configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Removes some blank lines
- Removes wrong comment about extending content collections
- Changes content collections to only allow content and other
  collections instead of everything
- Adjusts a comment with an old node type for a page

* Commit: `d8c7c9f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d8c7c9f2621879032b536b1af53fd9d07dcf7d80>`_

[BUGFIX] Tooltips not working in media browser
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The tooltips for icon buttons are not shown when opening
the media browser, only in the media module.

Related: NEOS-1028

* Commit: `7d6939c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7d6939c1b6f5509e267e326a12cade7f2cf06a2b>`_

[BUGFIX] Delete confirmation dialog not displaying in media browser
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When opening the media browser, not module, clicking the delete
various delete buttons does not show the confirmation dialog.

Fixes: NEOS-1286

* Commit: `175511b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/175511bab91ef13aabca1362da451f248d63767c>`_

[BUGFIX] Missing fallback label in user language selector
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a language doesn't have a label for the default language, the
language selector will show the key instead of a label.

Related: NEOS-143

* Commit: `ec40bbf <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ec40bbf7f5a723b3e6a0d90e787cf2fa7f0ce3ab>`_

[BUGFIX] Correct language key for danish in ``availableLanguages``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The language key for danish in the UI setting ``availableLanguages``
is set to ``dk`` instead of the correct ``da``.

Related: NEOS-143

* Commit: `05f6901 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/05f6901cf3976cf32cd86b07fd18e8f5b2a80bb9>`_

[BUGFIX] Missing padding before content collection creation form
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the media browser/module there's no padding between the creation form
and the edit icon for collections, when no collections have been created.

Related: NEOS-251

* Commit: `c534e6a <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/c534e6a8ac0a9f7f5390bd53590dbf361de6ccdb>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix unescaped HTML in danish XLIFF file
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `92c6bdc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/92c6bdcd67c27ec3897ea20f07c78e40684b50b0>`_

[TASK] Fix some more (syntax) errors in documentation sources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `eb8176c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/eb8176c30c32ac080a27c12973c206d73ecae6af>`_

[TASK] Fix some (syntax) errors in documentation sources
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `fcbc732 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fcbc732136dd8cb3442e51ba29c37d7261610b1e>`_

[TASK] Remove unused method parameter
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1ddb6e1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1ddb6e1024d63c29eff12d8e7fabf8ad3bce5cbd>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Add cache definition to ``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Menu``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes:Menu`` is missing cache definition.
Add cache definition to invalidate cache entry when any node
of type ``TYPO3.Neos:Document`` changes.

* Commit: `39a54be <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/39a54bef2b50c25a267421f18bf45f1b580acb36>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Rename signal argument
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The name "recursion" should give more meaning to the flag.

* Commit: `f891558 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/f891558fda3edfb84e9c05b8840810317218406a>`_

[BUGFIX] Make sure no invalid NodeData instances are used
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Makes sure that the first level cache for all context instances
is flushed after moving a node as the ``NodeData`` instance used for
a ``Node`` can have changed. Additionally adds a safeguard to the
``NodeFactory`` to drop Node instances that have an internal
``NodeData`` instance set.

Also adds the signal ``emitNodePathChanged`` to the Node object
in order to use the information in the right context.

Last but not least cleans up the ``ContextFactory`` API by adding a new
method ``getInstances`` and adding this and ``reset`` to the
``ContextFactoryInterface``. At the same time removing the public
method ``flushFirstLevelNodeCaches`` that was only used internally.

* Commit: `54f0f34 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/54f0f34123119289e62500fccf65a7a080d9046c>`_

[BUGFIX] Node path availability should be determined correctly
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The method
``\\TYPO3\\TYPO3CR\\Domain\\Service\\NodeService::nodePathAvailableForNode()``
checks if a given path can be used by a node and relies on
``nodePathExistsInAnyContext()`` for doing so. But as the node path is
not available if the path exists in any context the return value must be
negated in order to return the correct result.

* Commit: `bf2afe1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/bf2afe138f4b5e72e4f2d8a45172c1c38c4bb3bb>`_

[BUGFIX] findByProperties doesn't work with unicode
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Migrates Node properties to use unescaped unicode characters for
storage to allow findByProperties to actually find them.
Additionally runs the search term through json_encode just
to make sure that any characters that need to be escaped are
escaped for the search.

* Commit: `17893ac <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/17893aca2f5b2a725c90ca818657eb3dd7fd3db7>`_

[TASK] CGL Cleanup - Overwritten variable in foreach
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes incorrect variable naming in a foreach loop.

* Commit: `19cabfd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/19cabfd0fd180f575a1639c6ccfe0c3c5e3f3b01>`_

[BUGFIX] ``defaultValue`` for type ``DateTime`` doesn't work
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Changing the date type from ``date`` to ``DateTime`` caused a
regression in ``getDefaultValuesForProperties()`` since it wasn't
adjusted accordingly.

Related: I49f719670b60fa91c041af574b4dbbeb8b399eca

* Commit: `9f2d3b3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/9f2d3b3d441d173ea334d4cba4926c8bff312bc9>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Unable to use if condition inside a process segment
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Conditions are now properly executed in processors and additionally
processor and if condition code was refactored to separate methods
to reduce code duplication and make the code easier to understand.

Resolves: NEOS-1183

* Commit: `190b647 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/190b647cddee5bd98f7707f4a46e920d5f1f8d3d>`_

[FEATURE] Support entry tags with array value in @cache configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Entry tags for a cached path can be supplied with an array value. The
values will be merged with other tags. This allows to use Eel helpers
to dynamically compute a list of tags (e.g. for all parent nodes) which
is needed by certain scenarios (e.g. content slide).

Example::

  @cache {
  	mode = 'cached'
  	entryTags {
  		parents = ${['Tag1', 'Tag2']}
  	}
  }

Resolves: NEOS-1315

* Commit: `5853d9f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TypoScript.git/commit/5853d9fb2e2e2524b110337695e876eaba10792b>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[BUGFIX] Delete confirmation dialog not displaying in media browser
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When opening the media browser, not module, clicking the delete
various delete buttons does not show the confirmation dialog.

Fixes: NEOS-1286

* Commit: `777a02e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/777a02ed6bcb4540076db95d0a0dbcd1adfbc50e>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove inclusion of removed stylesheet file
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A old removed file was still included in the module leading to a
missing resource being loaded.

Related: NEOS-1020

* Commit: `76574af <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/76574af4347205ddd53e3fc152ca2feacf6ae7ab>`_

[TASK] Show relative modification date in detail view
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of showing the actual date for the modification date
in the list view, the relative date is shown instead since that's
easier to comprehend. The exact date is displayed as a tooltip.

Related: NEOS-1020

* Commit: `fb207dd <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/fb207dd448b7bdaff4d655efa2d57cade7504e8e>`_

[TASK] Improve relative date view helper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of displaying a different year as soon as the date is
from another year, the year is shown if the date is more than
11 months old from now. This helps since displaying the previous
month in January makes sense without adding the year.

Related: NEOS-1020

* Commit: `1c12f7e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/1c12f7e61a6012bd9b16b379b14590e5e5125f4d>`_

[TASK] Display actual date when hovering date in list view
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To be able to see the actual date and not only the relative one,
the actual date is displayed as a tooltip.

Related: NEOS-1020

* Commit: `dd70d7b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/dd70d7bab1e641270dfd0d8fcc5ea02978f22d43>`_

[TASK] Auto focus search field in list views
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Automatically focus the search field to make it faster to
search for users.

Resolves: NEOS-1299

* Commit: `48f21fa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/48f21fae825fe61309768aa6d3d5756007e96724>`_

[TASK] Display additional information in media detail view
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add information about file size, media type and optionally dimensions
if available for assets in the defail view.

Related: NEOS-1020

* Commit: `cd6b5b1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/cd6b5b18b9d827aa087d1604849fd8442ea16f58>`_

[TASK] Display asset identifier in detailed asset view
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Displays the asset identifier in the list of detailed
information for the asset in the detailed asset view.

Resolves: NEOS-309

* Commit: `4dd4586 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/4dd458615afe39442c077131b8b4b13922df25cd>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix regression with ImageVariant refreshes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``ImageVariant::refresh()`` triggered an exception because
the old resource was removed and still used afterwards.
This is fixed by not removing the old resource object from
the ImageVariant and just refreshing the resource. Additionally
a resource is also generated on creation of the ImageVariant.

Fixes: NEOS-1284

(cherry picked from commit 90b8e7e9164bcb364d233119f01c67c564aea5af)

* Commit: `a592ad0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Media.git/commit/a592ad0ae9980df1d948cf8cf074a33cf7f6c450>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

