==================
2.0.0-RC1 (2015-07-31)
==================

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Base Distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Require release candidate of Flow 3.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `ab472f7 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/ab472f7b416ea279066e0a183013bbc8330e87f5>`_

[TASK] Remove composer dependency on unstable doctrine/migrations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `139ebc0 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/139ebc04a7c58d3a5a738a08dfc587c392242004>`_

[TASK] Update composer.json information
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2ed7450 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/2ed7450d3ff81997ac178339682d39631144014b>`_

[TASK] Update composer manifest for 2.0.x-dev
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://jenkins.neos.io/job/Neos%20-%20Release/63/

* Commit: `8586351 <https://git.typo3.org/Neos/Distributions/Base.git/commit/85863516db036f16c891c5edf84d37c5e9d16ce6>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update references in documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://jenkins.neos.io/job/Neos%20-%20Release/64/

* Commit: `cb602e5 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cb602e5bda0e1ee6f89e9129b9bcf709cf7e6638>`_

[TASK] Improve robustness of Media Transformations
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds extra checks for resource existence to the Media transformations
to avoid broken transformation states while upgrading Neos to 2.x.

Fixes: NEOS-1463

* Commit: `59a5f2d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/59a5f2d64d51516cb9c0ebcc6c74869b9425d54a>`_

[TASK] Adjust documentation to auto-generated node names
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Many have trouble with finding a child node by it's node name
due to the change to auto-generating node names. Therefore the
examples for getting a child page by a given name is changed to
getting by the ``uriPathSegment`` instead, which is more visible.

* Commit: `d52df52 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d52df52ca14116579c9ae52fdf5dcb48960289eb>`_

[TASK] Add indices to Eventlog tables
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Especially the update query on publishing of nodes is rather complicated
and benefits a lot from indices to speed up the process.

This adds two basic indices that should be useful for publishing of nodes
and displaying the event list.

* Commit: `e096914 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e096914da1a78a526154e192d807c9f9f23942c9>`_

[BUGFIX] In select boxes, allow to hard-code the placeholder text (without localization)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Without this change, the "placeholder" can not be hardcoded anymore (which is a 2.0
regression).

* Commit: `3dc6b94 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/3dc6b94e5dc5620bd75d5ab930cf9b7b62970334>`_

[BUGFIX] Node created in new dimension not shown after creation
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a node is created in a new dimension using the content
dimension selector, the new node is not shown after creation.

Related: NEOS-1450

* Commit: `7c92964 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7c929644c3d9906563654b27658706de206e6f48>`_

[BUGFIX] Show correct tooltips for root nodes in navigate component trees
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The title attributes for the root nodes in the navigate component trees
(node/structure) didn't take translation into account leading to labels
like "some.label.id" or "undefined".
With this change ``I18n.translate()`` is applied to the tooltips fixing
that issue.

Fixes: NEOS-1436

* Commit: `6d4fa3b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/6d4fa3b20d6497d2a13841985eb4063f319364a8>`_

[BUGFIX] Avoid mismatching finalImageDimensions on load
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the bindings we have, it could happen that the provided
metadata for an image contain values for an ``ResizeAdjustment``
that are slightly different from the calculated sizes by using a
ratio generated from the crop values. This mismatch would lead to
a value difference and applicable changes for an image right after
selecting it.

The change circumvents that by setting the dimensions straight from
the provided metadata (again) after bindings have triggered.

Dimensions will still be updated when cropping so it could happen that
the crop area is modified in a way that you end up with the same crop
area and still have a modification afterwards due to the
calculations done. This is probably acceptable.

Resolves: NEOS-1384

* Commit: `dc4e433 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/dc4e433ca185930e9830bff2fd0491e692df490e>`_

[BUGFIX] Remove usage of NodePaths utility in 2.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The NodePaths utility was introduced for master and doesn't exist in
the 2.0 branch therefore ``I5bdbb7424c8575b8075876a4fcfeef64379ab015``
introduced a regression by using it.

This changes replaces it with string operations.

* Commit: `fe77303 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/fe77303a936dfbcd5286d182937b72d342e4844c>`_

[BUGFIX] node:repair ``generateUriPathSegments`` should use dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``generateUriPathSegments`` plugin for ``node:repair`` should take
all dimensions into consideration and not only language.

This change fixes it by using the new methods added for fixing
``node:repair`` in TYPO3CR.

Additionally now applies to root nodes and uses the node label instead
if it's name to generate the URI path segment.

Depends: I995285f22fa5486d5bc53c4f96f68bb9fae831a3
Fixes: NEOS-1466

* Commit: `217d10e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/217d10e4bbc132d801a4150901a51e2ecbe75801>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8e1d9da <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/8e1d9da71823ddb2472fb91b11f70618923665f1>`_

[BUGFIX] CreateNodeForTheTreeAction needs to filter for tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The change ``Id9ea03a3935150b6f81d71ee27ef848e8e15aad1`` introduced
a regression as the returned children are not correctly filtered for
the tree they are displayed in.

This change adds a node type filter based on the trees general
base node type filter.

Fixes: NEOS-1469
Related: NEOS-1053
Related: Id9ea03a3935150b6f81d71ee27ef848e8e15aad1

* Commit: `d6285b4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d6285b4f77d24135e0a78ac26798b51d82b42c71>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix flushing of documents when parents subpage layout changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The entry tag for documents is currently set to
`DescendantOf_{documentNode.identifier}` which will flush a document if
_any_ of the descendant nodes changes. This was originally  planned to
flush the document for parent layout change, but fails to do so and
causes lots of unnecessary cache flushes.

With the support of array cache entry tags we can do better by directly
referencing all parent document nodes in the tags.

Fixes: NEOS-1317

* Commit: `a0c1f79 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a0c1f79d55aaccaa6434e11ed07ad872a9359967>`_

[BUGFIX] Selected node not active in structure tree after reload
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the context structure tree is reloaded the currently selected
node is not activated after reloading the tree.
This gives an invalid state of the tree where the inline and
structure tree are out of sync, since the root element is active
in the structure tree instead.

Fixes: NEOS-1473

* Commit: `068d6c4 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/068d6c45de1fe88f979e03db30a077cced0fdaa1>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `f092585 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f092585e556d124290f9ef5acf85dd1198b53273>`_

[BUGFIX] Load structure tree containing nodes with invalid types
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As loading the structure tree doesn't work at all if any children are
of a NodeType that is no longer available you have no possibility to
delete invalid nodes.

To solve this issue TYPO3CR introduced a configurable NodeType fallback
which is used by Neos to handle those invalid nodes as having the
fallback type transparently when loading them into the structure tree.

This way they can be deleted or have their type changed.

Depends: Iec3727f002868398a86984d1f1a1ff6408c931b8
Fixes: NEOS-649
Related: NEOS-1246

* Commit: `7180909 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/7180909c6ee8b1deac14ae64f55daa5bd264c893>`_

[BUGFIX] Link wizards & reference(s) editors display incorrect node path
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Removes additional info for selected item in reference(s) editors
- Fixes a couple of incorrect fetching of node frontend URI
- Synchronizes the output for URIs across show and index actions
- Adjusts content dimension selector to new URI output

Fixes: NEOS-1450

* Commit: `29f5021 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/29f50216aa3d1fc8d3dea3a7b06c25135ced9324>`_

[TASK] Prevent infinite loop in JS translations with placeholders
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a label with placeholders isn't properly used an infinite loop
will occur, to prevent that the loop is broken if an error occurs.

Related: NEOS-1264

* Commit: `39441d3 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/39441d323968603c83fb0524a2dfd0c771125424>`_

[BUGFIX] Child nodes missing for newly created nodes in structure tree
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When inserting a node type that has auto created child nodes, the child
nodes aren't shown until reloading the tree. This change makes sure all
auto generated child nodes are shown for newly inserted nodes.

Fixes: NEOS-1053

* Commit: `b601a8e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b601a8e1ee20d5548daceec81253534b09f79b58>`_

[BUGFIX] Reload structure tree after adding new nodes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When nodes were changed in the structure tree the tree would only 
reflect the current page after having navigated to another document
for the second time.

This was caused by a fix added with https://review.typo3.org/26158 and
which is no longer needed, since the observer on pageNodePath is not
triggered if the same page is reloaded.

Fixes: NEOS-1343

* Commit: `a9b9b3d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a9b9b3d16a3093e09c6dd15d008c883028ff4654>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `ef88e86 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ef88e860cf7c948c09cd8c485e00de7b20100de5>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `366e1da <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/366e1daa6dd674787edc04adcf58da3c6dc68fec>`_

[BUGFIX] Page reload shouldn't occur if ``reloadPageIfChanged`` is false
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If both ``reloadIfChanged`` and ``reloadPageIfChanged`` are false for
a property, no content reload should occur when changing that property
in the inspector. Currently they do due to a fallback to handle
unexpected server responses.

Related: NEOS-827

* Commit: `20cec28 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/20cec288daf4851085cae7cde717a94b045ee97a>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `cd7c690 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/cd7c6900dbddcdc996ccb9bb6e1ffd91668290fd>`_

[BUGFIX] Title in users management & user settings module broken
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The title tag in users management & user settings module contain
untranslated translation ids due to a custom title generation.

Fixes: NEOS-1453

* Commit: `1b1f49f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1b1f49fe81f26a56650189aa8bc5b5d92f35935b>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `a73a96b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/a73a96bf22e3f90fc2e0687d0022e0f37c599852>`_

[BUGFIX] ``uriPathSegment`` logic break non-document nodes with content object proxy
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When inserting a new document node on a level that has non-document
nodes using content object proxy a fatal error is thrown for not being
able to call ``getUriPathSegment`` on the content object proxy.
This happens due to the ``uriPathSegment`` logic tries to find all
siblings (regardless of being documents or not) with a certain
``uriPathSegment``.
This becomes a problem when the property is fetched from a content
object proxy instead of a node, since it calls an undefined getter
method.

To fix this issue only document node types are tested for having the
same ``uriPathSegment`` property.

Fixes: NEOS-1455

* Commit: `74e008e <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/74e008e98654ca451659246509ac0b0a7d0d00ab>`_

[TASK] Code cleanup related to user interface language
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: NEOS-3

* Commit: `d0088aa <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d0088aaf061d0453f4a553ae00accacb6804b98e>`_

[BUGFIX] Typos in a couple of module labels
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Related: NEOS-3

* Commit: `b48c566 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/b48c5665bfc5dcb17ced920dad1361ec42e012b8>`_

[TASK] Remove unused shared accounts partial
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `ce17fea <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ce17fea170a63d04949e3c522515812ce530767f>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `9664d1f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/9664d1ff934dae436d295de3cedb2f17eeb425c5>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1d8db99 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1d8db999aef9e02d8d38767b9e023d1830d1c0bb>`_

[BUGFIX] Fix double encoding in flash messages of modules
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Backend modules had their flash messages escaped twice since the change
with id I9b766f12fa84a0f231ef8aa27cc20bfa64423c49.

Fixes: NEOS-1451

* Commit: `5f44ec0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/5f44ec0ea8214588aaba33fa8be662663014a433>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d5e039d <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/d5e039d894d5e28fa0f4276121999ceac0c6742e>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `39379d0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/39379d0d63e7db22e0814e0f45744cf59de9c621>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `eb9143f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/eb9143f9807a4e2fe7936ab4604bfcc92625e5b6>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `31eae45 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/31eae45d3b3568f877bc2c778abd0d23b8bb852e>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `62a1069 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/62a1069228a63f32f7e28d9399c4cbb3f55f4da7>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `1882ccb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/1882ccb70d417a525dc6c7ed59e186ddaf3de7a8>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e223f23 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e223f23af01378fcc826c5f99c78fd916988eaa8>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `4e23551 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/4e235519a9e0965d6d1dde668ec601bc26994dea>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `f5069d0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/f5069d09aa67b5f09d537c04ce1971b2f8ac8a88>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `e360564 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/e36056442705e89dfc8b2d7aa8b7fad00c6d466c>`_

[TASK] Fix error message in UserInitialsViewHelper
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `62ef601 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/62ef601f57e2876f1785fcde4090fd3208ca1cd0>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `ec57172 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.git/commit/ec5717273185a26f1571495ad580dd817b7f60e4>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `d57da8c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/d57da8c81bb88d4fbee628005dfdadf7613c05a7>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `8a25fb1 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/8a25fb19ef1031e5449c20ad9e8774c5274d0aa5>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `2392d9c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/2392d9c159147bc1d638c68d7690cc3111a22a72>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `719d848 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/719d8482325639831b274d115a9303f9730aae7b>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `7492258 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/74922589e785b5103170b24c76297909321ee8d7>`_

[TASK] Headline calls itself Headline again, not Title
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Headline nodetype was named "Title" in NodeTypes/Headline.xlf.

* Commit: `db98ef8 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/db98ef878e5bc639aa93438f95b0a5cd34f9c1e0>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `9af2732 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/9af27321f58a8f66e7c84de980bca6559a436b44>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `cb3b90b <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/cb3b90b84cdb34bec54e56ffccf4895017b4b861>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `7c5a85c <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/7c5a85ced3e7a718dfc1e98e4a77252a771d5a2d>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `385aec2 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/385aec22861a798992727e7c0a55bc83f399eac5>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `48457eb <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/48457ebd768232bae18d5cad6a26eb89891c33cf>`_

[TASK] Update translations from translation tool
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `552a6fc <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes.git/commit/552a6fc81f36bb584c228ca8f92560c1efcdfea6>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Neos.Kickstarter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TYPO3CR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[FEATURE] Add node migration to add dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds migration 20150716212459 which adds missing dimensions to
nodes, setting their default value. This enables the addition of
content dimensions to existing content having dimensions already.

The migration uses the new AddDimensions transformation, which will
add to a node's dimensions (as opposed to the existing SetDimensions
transformation).

Fixes: NEOS-1464

* Commit: `35c3685 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/35c3685811fe22535738c50e946152a659c8b198>`_

[BUGFIX] node:repair should consider dimensions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change makes sure that all ``node:repair`` command
plugins operate correctly with dimensions.

The NodeFactory gained an internal method to generate a context
based on a given NodeData instance that matches the properties
of this.

Additionally ``TYPO3\\TYPO3CR\\Domain\\Service\\ContentDimensionCombinator``
was introduced to deal with generating possible dimension configuarations
for Context generation.

Releaes: master, 2.0, 1.2
Fixes: NEOS-1466

* Commit: `16ffc6f <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/16ffc6fa022d8abd1c0e9e3bfa9dd72ee52cd3a1>`_

[FEATURE] Allow configurable fallbacks for unavailable NodeTypes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As you could have nodes which have a NodeType that is no longer available
the TYPO3CR should have the possibility to convert those nodes at least
to a configurable fallback NodeType that can be deleted instead of
throwing an error and not having the possibility to cleanup those nodes
except using ``node:repair``.

You can configure the fallback NodeType name in the Settings
configuration::

  TYPO3:
    TYPO3CR:
      fallbackNodeType: 'Some.Package:SomeNodeType'

Related: NEOS-649
Related: NEOS-1246

* Commit: `e2ef488 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/e2ef4880af21f80b9b65169789cfcf0796de77a7>`_

[BUGFIX] NodeService shouldn't use non existing class
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The change ``I34b21540fc11ef9d5e7977752b94369faad5534a`` introduced
a regression in 2.0 as the backported code contained a reference
to a class that was only introduced in master.

This change fixes it by removing the reference and directly concatinating
the paths together.

Related: I34b21540fc11ef9d5e7977752b94369faad5534a
Fixes: NEOS-1457

* Commit: `9ecf704 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/9ecf7043a0761fb77bc0d556d4493312e5151b60>`_

[BUGFIX] Avoid duplicate key errors with setDimensions()
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When dimensions are set, the dimensions property of NodeData is
clear()ed, and then the given dimensions are added.

If one of the added dimensions has the same name and value as one that
was present, a duplicate key error occurs during persisting of the
changes, because Doctrine first does the inserts and then the removal
of records.

This change fixes that by actually comparing the dimensions to be set to
the ones already set on the node, re-using instances that have the same
name and value.

* Commit: `e252403 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.TYPO3CR.git/commit/e252403b33f3f3e07088df1410eb119dbd4949a6>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.TypoScript
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No changes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[TASK] Update site export
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Commit: `5652195 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/565219521325564f5eaac1c7ae40ecbe822b6bc7>`_

[BUGFIX] Wrong nesting of tags in Default.html template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes a superfluous div in the Default.html page template.

* Commit: `4dfe5b0 <https://git.typo3.org/Packages/TYPO3.NeosDemoTypo3Org.git/commit/4dfe5b0a43e21a466845afa490f636acdfb7d72a>`_

