`2.0.1 (2015-10-19) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.0.1>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`[BUGFIX] Translate node type label in PluginView master plugin selection <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/45>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `NEOS-1543 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1543>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Update list of available user interface languages <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/65>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adding Spanish, Khmer, Portuguese (Brazilian), Norwegian & Chinese Simplified

* Related: `NEOS-1486 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1486>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Remove custom exception handling in PluginViewImplementation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/48>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes the custom handling of exceptions for PluginViews, which is limited
and unnecessary. Instead the general NodeWrapping exception handler is used.

* Resolves: `NEOS-1537 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1537>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Missing \`\`inversedBy\`\` mapping on event \`\`parentEvent\`\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/131>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] PHP 5.3 array declarations (TYPO3CR) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/148>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`[BUGFIX] PHP 5.3 array declarations (Neos) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/147>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Kickstarter`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`[BUGFIX] Hidden before/after properties breaks site import <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/143>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The closing tags for the ``hiddenBeforeDateTime`` and ``hiddenAfterDateTime``
properties were not handled in the node import service.

* Resolves: `NEOS-1554 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1554>`_
* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`[BUGFIX] Render exception in HTML even if an other format is given <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/141>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If an exception is thrown while rendering a page with an alternative format
like .json, the ExceptionHandlers\\PageHandler tries to fetch a layout for this alternative
format which raises another exception: `#1288092555: Could not load layout file`

Switching the setters of the RequestHandler and the format always renders the
exception as HTML.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Graceful handling of node linking exceptions <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/119>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Gracefully handle exceptions in the NodeUri TS object
- Gracefully handle exceptions in node linking view helpers

* Resolves: `NEOS-1625 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1625>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Prevent fatal error in \`\`node:repair\`\` with broken node structure <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/122>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the "/sites" root node or it's children cannot be found a fatal error
is thrown or it's silently ignored. Instead output an error message that the
nodes could not be found.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Fix wrong markup in 2.0 release notes ACL example YAML <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/136>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Document \`defaultValue\` for \`DateTimeEditor\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/135>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Documentation of the `defaultValue` option for the `DateTime` property type.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Behat tests <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/130>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Using relative paths fails when using isolated tests that are run
in a subprocess. To support the development collection and
read-only repositories full paths are used by checking which
structure is present.

Related: `cdbffb7f5ab28d630601c733e97568c27a8b0cbf <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/cdbffb7f5ab28d630601c733e97568c27a8b0cbf>`_

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Enable Behat Neos Behat tests for Travis <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/129>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a ``@browser`` tag used to skip those since they require
Selenium and take very long to run.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Enable Behat Travis tests <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/128>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Additionally includes a couple of general improvements.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Ignore built JavaScript/CSS files during merge <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/126>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When merging a lower branch to an upper one the built files often conflict.
To avoid that the file in the current branch is used when solving conflicts.
This is done using ``.gitattributes`` stored in the root of the repository.

Enable this with::

  git config merge.ours.driver true

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`[TASK] Ignore built JavaScript/CSS to avoid merge conflicts <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/127>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To avoid merge conflicts, the minified built files are ignored in Git and
instead added using force by the automated jobs in Jenkins.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Behavior tests failing with new structure <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/76>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`[TASK] Replace usage of compass font-files to get rid of cache bust <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/125>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is done since we don't need that cache bust and since it's updated
on every new compilation unnecessarily. It's not possible to disable in
Compass without scripting, so the inclusion is just done manually instead.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] No longer use invalid data in functional test <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/121>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The MigrationStatusRepositoryTest used invalid fixture data, the
direction was filled with strings that were too long for the related
DB column. On MySQL this is silently truncated, but on PostgreSQL it
leads to an error.

Now the expected class constants are used in the test.

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`[BUGFIX] Use current node as document node if no document node is found <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/117>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the fallback node mode is triggered, the ``documentNode`` TypoScript
variable is empty leading to various issues. This solves that by using the
current node as the document node in that case.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1624 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1624>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add missing slashes to FQN in CustomViewHelpers.rst <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/120>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Position master plugin selection above plugin view selection <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/46>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Positions the master plugin selection in the inspector for a PluginView above
instead of undernearth the plugin view selection, to avoid confusion since
the plugin view selection depends on the master plugin selection.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1544 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1544>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Unset selected plugin view when changing master view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/41>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When changing the master view selection for a PluginView,
the selected plugin view is not unset causing confusion.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1541 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1541>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Remove superfluous quotes from PluginView label <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/40>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes superfluous quotes around PluginView label seen in the plugin view editor for plugin views.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Flush on change of descendants of referenced node <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/112>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add descendants of referenced nodes to cache tags of the "Content References"
node type. This ensures that nested nodes inside a node inserted as a reference
will be updated when those nodes are flushed.

* Packages: ``NodeTypes``

`[TASK] Fix some code style issues <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/113>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] CachingHelper generation of entry tags for descendants of a node <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/110>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cache entry tags are case sensitive.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[MERGE] Merge '2.0' <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/108>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Kickstarter`` ``Media`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes`` ``TYPO3CR`` ``TypoScript``

`[BUGFIX] Fix license header text <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/106>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes a superfluous "the" in the license header, it's
not "THE Neos".

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Fix some code style issues (Neos) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/105>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Adjust documentation link in setup final step <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/98>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Update license headers <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/95>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change updates license headers in all packages contained in the Neos Development Collection according to what has been discussed earlier: https://discuss.neos.io/t/rfc-license-header-file-doc-comment-change/517


* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Service\\NodesController should stick to interfaces <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/96>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``Service\NodesController`` should refer to the
``NodeSearchServiceInterface`` instead of the implementation class
to avoid hard dependencies and allow overwriting the implementation
from the outside.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Make PluginView label translatable <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/44>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `NEOS-1540 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1540>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[!!!][TASK] Fix support for thumbnail with fixed width and height <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/60>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Neos 2.0 introduce a regression that break thumbnails with fixed height
and width (if the ratio of the original image is different than the
ratio of the Thumbnail).

This change allow to set fixed width and height in Image ViewHelpers, TS
Objects and change the internal API. This change is currently breaking
(internal API only) but BC if you use only the ViewHelpers or the TS objects.

This change introduce ```ThumbnailConfiguration``` value object to make
the method signature more readable and make the breaking change more visible.

This change change the database structure for thumbnail entity to store
a JSON representation of the configuration and a hash of this configuration.
The hash is used to check if a thumbnail exist with the same configuration.
By default NULL value are not stored in the database to allow change in the
ThumbnailConfiguration without invalidating all the generated thumbnails.

This change require a database migration::

  ./flow doctrine:migrate
  # or specifically
  ./flow doctrine:migrationexecute --version 20150913173832

This change also simulate to behaviour of Neos 1.2 for BC, where
this snippet will generate a square image of 200x200::

  <typo3.media:image image="{image}" maximumWidth="200" maximumHeight="200" allowCropping="true" alt="{title}" />

In Neos 2.0, this snipped should be adjusted to::

  <typo3.media:image image="{image}" width="200" height="200" allowCropping="true" alt="{title}" />

You can unset the settings ``TYPO3.Media.behaviourFlag`` to disable the
Neos 1.2 behaviour compatibility. Previously Neos can generate fixed
dimensions by setting maximumWidth and maximumHeight. The new behaviour
introduced by Neos 2.0 is to use width and height.

* Resolves: `NEOS-1511 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1511>`_
* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`[TASK] Streamline "Loading ..." labels <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/43>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Changes the usage of "Loading ..." labels to be used consistently
across the user interface.

* Resolves: `NEOS-1539 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1539>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add .editorconfig file <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/78>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`[BUGFIX] Fix timing issue in NodeImportServiceTest <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/85>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The node import service puts an instance of `Now` in the expected
value and afterwards starts the import that will write the actual
`creationDateTime` and `lastModificationDateTime` properties. Because
the import takes time there's no guarantee that those values will
match and as such the tests randomly fail.

This change changes the check so it validates the properties to
be an instance of `DateTime` after the import, but removes it from
the expectedValue definition.

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`[TASK] Add .travis.yml to 2.0 branch <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/89>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`[TASK] Add .travis.yml for the 1.2 branch <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/87>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`[TASK] Add configuration file for StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/77>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Prevent fatal error for missing master plugin in PluginViews <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/42>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents PluginViews with a master plugin selected that cannot be found
from throwing a fatal error. This can happen when the master plugin is
removed/moved or is not available in the context.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1530 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1530>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add Code of Conduct <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/71>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a reStructuredText version of the Contributor Covenant
code of conduct, to make it clear the project is governed by that.

See also http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/2/0/

`[BUGFIX] Adjust carousel node type example <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/72>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since Neos 2.0 you have to write content.iterationName instead of iterationName.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add Readme.rst files for individual packages <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/74>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a Readme.rst to each package, so that the read-only subsplit
repositories have a readme file for GitHub to show and for the users
to read.

* Packages: ``Kickstarter`` ``Media`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes`` ``TYPO3CR`` ``TypoScript``

`[BUGFIX] Reset date picker to current date instead of null <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/66>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If reset to null, the date picker would default to 1899 instead of the
current date when being opened again.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1351 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1351>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add composer.json and template <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/39>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`[TASK] Add merged composer.json and template <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/38>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`[BUGFIX] Add inversedBy attribute to association <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/14>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When running a doctrine:validate an error is shown for the Tag model
since it does not contain the required inversedBy attribute. This
change fixes that by adding it.

* Fixes: `NEOS-1507 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1507>`_
* Packages: ``Media``

`Merge branch 1.2 into 2.0 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/29>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Resolve test trait paths relatively <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/9>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In order to accomodate running the tests with the new joined
repositories as well as the read-only ones the require path
must be relative to the current path to avoid passing the
Application/Neos folder.


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.0.0...2.0.1>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
