`2.0.4 (2015-11-23) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.0.4>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`[BUGFIX] Avoid "Missing constructor argument" exception <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/203>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The type converter would always call ``buildObject()`` on the parent,
even if the possible constructor arguments were empty. This lead to:

Missing constructor argument "resource" for object of type
``TYPO3\\Media\\Domain\\Model\Asset``.

A check is added to avoid that.

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`[TASK] Security documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/187>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This documents node privileges and their matchers, as well as how to restrict
access to backend modules.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Fix and amend data sources documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/197>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes and amends the documentation on data sources. Some code
cleanup to related classes is done along the way.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Use correct node for content collection metadata <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/180>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Content collection handles are not shown since the meta data
added is using the document node instead of the actual node.

Regression introduced with `4672697b9477ceca53ee7b4e47c4def002e50e32 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/4672697b9477ceca53ee7b4e47c4def002e50e32>`_
causing the node not to be set correctly for the
``contentElementWrapping`` processor.

* Related: `NEOS-1326 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1326>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Security warning if Neos demo is public <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/193>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Fix rst syntax in CustomViewHelpers.rst <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/191>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Fixed documentation for creating a plugin <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/184>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Wrong ViewHelper was used in an example.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Fix transient error when moving of nodes in Node Tree <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/172>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

How to Reproduce:

- have a website with dimension fallbacks configured; e.g. Language "de"
  which falls back to "en".
- Your content should be in German (no content in English actually needed)
- Try to move nodes across the tree with changing the Node's Parent Node
- watch the exception "Could not convert array to Node object because
  [the-old-node-path] does not exist" in the get-child-nodes-for-tree
  endpoint.

This error happens because the "move" operation, which is supposed to return
the *new* node path of the moved node, still returns the old path.

And this error, in turn, is triggered by some bug inside Node->setPath
(see inline comments for a full description).

* Resolves: `NEOS-1652 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1652>`_
* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`[TASK] Improve logging for "no homepage found" situations <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/178>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the Node Route Part Handler wasn't able to find a site node,
the exception now contains information about if at least a domain
could be detected and if so, which one matched.

Additionally, `matchValue()` will now also log an exception if the
request path was empty (that is, the user requested the homepage) and
not only for sub pages.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] if in backend, do not intercept links to static resources <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/177>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevents loading links to static resources using AJAX in the backend interface,
which fail when loaded.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] Fixes correct getting of options for StringLengthValidator (JS) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/155>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixed the second parameter (radix) of parseInt to get the correct configured max and min. Was falsely changed during translation of JS messages.

Related: `5723c22561591d1ada93ee7cef5b85d30c47b9a2 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/5723c22561591d1ada93ee7cef5b85d30c47b9a2>`_
* Fixes: `NEOS-1636 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1636>`_

`[TASK] Add documentation for child node positioning. <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/149>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add the missing documentation for the positioning of child nodes in the structure tree.

* Resolves: `NEOS-1629 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1629>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`[BUGFIX] create index file and index entry for \`\`Configuration\`\` section and fix sample code <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/176>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add brief section about \`\`loadingDepth\`\` node tree setting <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/174>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`[FEATURE] Support search by property & exact value in NodeDataRepository <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Currently it is only possible to search through the properties by
giving a string that matches for any key or value found in the
jsonified properties field.

With this change, the term can also be an array to match exactly on a
given key / value combination.
The search term could be given as `['key' => 'value']`.

* Resolves: `NEOS-1460 <https://jira.neos.io/browse/NEOS-1460>`_
* Packages: ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`[BUGFIX] Keep status code from module response on redirect <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/170>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The response of a module loses the status code if it contains a Location
header. This is caused by the ModuleController redirecting to the found
location but ignoring any status code that may have been set. This means
that a module will only create 303 redirects.

This change takes the status code of a module response and applies it to
the generated redirect, fixing this behavior.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Change documentation for data sources <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/158>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fix doubled quotes in CustomizingInspector.rst
Change the example in DataSources.rst - the example now makes sens for the use
in an inspector select box. Also adjust the code style.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Fix code-block syntax in 2.0 release notes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/154>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add apigen.yml <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/153>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds an apigen.yml file for use when generating API docs.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.0.3...2.0.4>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
