`2.0.7 (2016-01-14) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.0.7>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Wrong label visibility inspector group <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/333>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change remove the 'i18n' prefix from the inspector group label.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Aloha update and fix <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/332>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updates Aloha Editor to closest maintained version (1.1.5 to 1.2.42)

No new features used (only bugfixes)

Additionally fixes a bug with the toolbar buttons overflowing

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Export resources as BASE64 if no export path defined <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/335>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR`` ``TypoScript``

`BUGFIX: Select editor unset button styling <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/326>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Load moved page if moving parent page <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/331>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you move a parent node of the node in the NodeTree you are currently on the node tree
will break because the pageNodePath for your current node is not set to the new path.

NEOS-1752 #close

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Streamline styling of clear buttons in node tree <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/327>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Replace visible occurrences of www.typo3.org with www.neos.io <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/321>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change replaces www.typo3.org which is given as an example in the
"add new domain" dialog by www.neos.io, and also replaces it in a couple
of unit tests. The VIE namespace is not modified by this change.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Show content element after copy paste inline <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/309>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes copy pasting of content elements where the new element wouldn't be displayed until
reloading the page.

Additionally fixes an issue where cutting an element caused a page reload.

NEOS-1506 #close

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Allow translation of dimension label <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/303>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The dimension label could not be translated, because the translate
helper was used incorrect.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`[TASK] Add section about the \`\`DefaultPage\`\` prototype approach <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/189>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

source: https://discuss.neos.io/t/document-node-type-best-practices/242
The credit for this approach goes to Christopher Hlubek.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: node:repair doesn't mix internal node properties <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/288>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``node:repair`` command would currently apply any configured default
value as node property value if the property did not exist. This is
wrong for properties prefixed with an underscore as we use this
prefix for internal properties.
This is now changed so that any property starting with underscore
is ignored.

As this prefix is currently implicit knowledge a small note was added
to the documentation, stating that property names should not start
with underscores as we use them internally.

NEOS-1721 #close

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: RenameNode Transformation uses existing method <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/287>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``RenameNode`` transformation for node migrations used
the non existing method ``setName`` on the ``NodeData`` object.
It now uses ``setPath`` instead which exists.

NEOS-1727 #close fixed with this change

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`TASK: Documentation for node migrations <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/292>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds documentation for node migrations (filters and transformations).

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.0.6...2.0.7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
