`2.1.15 (2017-02-15) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.1.15>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Path parameter correctly annotated as string <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1390>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For `\\TYPO3\\TypoScript\\Core\\Runtime->handleRenderingException()`.

Fixed for 3.0 in #1389.

* Packages: ``TypoScript``

`BUGFIX: Set correct timezoneOffset in DateTime-picker <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1209>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes the bug that the DateTime-picker gets an hour off after
daylight-saving-time switch.

Fixes: #851

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Remove role check when deleting workspaces for users <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1377>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This was broken by `5279a7489efcd3c5f5e411b6b5bda11ad1b4ca75 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/5279a7489efcd3c5f5e411b6b5bda11ad1b4ca75>`_.
Before, checks were done for the role TYPO3.Neos:Editor. However,
checking for AbstractEditor is pointless; workspaces are
now never deleted when a user is deleted. Since the deletePersonalWorkspace
method checks for existence anyway, there's no reason to do
this role check at all. If a user is deleted, his workspaces should be
deleted as well.

Fixes #1376.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: RemoveNodePrivilege blocks editing <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/341>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The RemoveNodePrivilege would block editing of nodes completely, since
the inspector would send all properties of a node, but the setter for
"removed" was blocked by the privilege.

Now the privilege only matches on setRemoved(true) and thus only blocks
what it should block.

Fixes #896 

`TASK: Removed duplicate line in NodeUri prototype <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1324>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.1.14...2.1.15>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
