`2.1.3 (2016-01-14) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.1.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Refresh NodeTree if Workspace is switched <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/334>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you switch the workspace the NodeTree will be reloaded.

NEOS-1753 #close

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Wrong label visibility inspector group <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/333>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change remove the 'i18n' prefix from the inspector group label.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Aloha update and fix <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/332>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updates Aloha Editor to closest maintained version (1.1.5 to 1.2.42)

No new features used (only bugfixes)

Additionally fixes a bug with the toolbar buttons overflowing

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Export resources as BASE64 if no export path defined <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/335>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR`` ``TypoScript``

`BUGFIX: Select editor unset button styling <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/326>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Load moved page if moving parent page <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/331>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you move a parent node of the node in the NodeTree you are currently on the node tree
will break because the pageNodePath for your current node is not set to the new path.

NEOS-1752 #close

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Streamline styling of clear buttons in node tree <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/327>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Document missing \`\`ConvertUris\`\` property \`\`absolute\`\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/330>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Documents a missing property ``absolute`` for the ``ConvertUris`` TypoScript object

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Fix spelling mistakes in \`\`FeatureList\`\` documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/329>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes some spellings in the FeatureList

* Packages: ``Diff`` ``Media`` ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: Migration for workspaces with empty owners <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/322>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fixes issued for NEOS-1740 didn't consider the case of an installation
were previous migrations ran and set the owner of workspaces to an
empty string instead of NULL which made the first bugfix migration ignore
those workspaces. This migration now targets those specifically, together
migrating all workspaces to having the correct ownership.

NEOS-1740 #close

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Replace visible occurrences of www.typo3.org with www.neos.io <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/321>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change replaces www.typo3.org which is given as an example in the
"add new domain" dialog by www.neos.io, and also replaces it in a couple
of unit tests. The VIE namespace is not modified by this change.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Reintroduce PublishingService <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/315>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The PublishingService was moved from TYPO3\\TYPO3CR\\Service to
the TYPO3\\TYPO3CR\\Domain\\Service namespace in commit
`23b162fa737cd56eb065b71e76a11ee823cdec7a <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/23b162fa737cd56eb065b71e76a11ee823cdec7a>`_. As the class was annotated
with @api that change was actually breaking and should not have been
released in a minor release.

This change introduces the class again and immediately deprecates it
to be removed in a later version.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.1.2...2.1.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
