`2.2.3 (2016-05-19) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.2.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Aloha bugfix update <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/523>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updates Aloha Editor to latest release of ``1.2`` (``1.2.42`` to ``1.2.47``)

Additionally includes an important bugfix only included in currently maintained versions (``1.3``/``1.4``)

NEOS-1822 #close

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Aloha list style class not sanitized <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/522>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using Aloha list styles, the class attribute was sanitized automatically making the feature unusable.

NEOS-854

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Use correct relative paths in built CSS files <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/524>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The built CSS file concatenated library CSS files without
rewriting the relative URLs, leading to missing assets.

One example is the missing down caret for the Aloha list styles.

NEOS-1618 #close

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Adjust configuration to render the neos-viewhelper reference automatically <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/520>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In `6cc5ad24997a55cc31fceacb62188e5c6feec640 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/6cc5ad24997a55cc31fceacb62188e5c6feec640>`_ the configuration for the rendering of the neos-viewhelpers was added. This commit adds this configuration to the list of references that is automatically updated for neos.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Empty references editor should not send query <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/519>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a references editor has no selected values it queries the
backend without any identifiers, leading to an exception on the
server side.

Regression of `b906930ca056823c75462fffddefa6278ef54e16 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/b906930ca056823c75462fffddefa6278ef54e16>`_

NEOS-1828 #close
NEOS-1261 #regression

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Values not selected in select box editor when added asynchronously <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/518>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When options are populated asynchronously to the select box editor (e.g.
when using data source or in the plugin view editors) the value wasn't
updated properly.

Regression introduced in `2b79b585b63f3d07153af404721a77798e47cf3a <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/2b79b585b63f3d07153af404721a77798e47cf3a>`_

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Publishable Node Context considers dimension fallbacks <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/512>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Context created for Nodes in a workspace in the ``PublishingService``
was derived from the ``NodeData`` entities dimension values, which should only
be the target values of the context but (wrongly) doesn't consider fallbacks
configured in presets.

To solve this a new method in the PresetSource allows to find best matching
presets based on target values for dimensions. Those are then used to
get a ``Context`` with fallback rules for dimensions, avoiding errors with
missing nodes in the root path as these might only exist within a ``Context``
that considers fallback rules.

The ``ContentDimensionPresetSourceInterface`` is not declared public ``@api``
so the change is not marked breaking.

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.2.2...2.2.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
