`2.3.14 (2017-07-07) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.3.14>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Skip apply change handler if the editor is undefined <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1628>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fix a JS console error, when ember try to call _applyChangeHandler
on property like _nodeType, because this property is not really an editor.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: Publish moved nodes in nested workspaces <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1609>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change contains a fix and additional Behat tests which solves an issue with moving and publishing nodes in a nested workspace scenario which can lead to data corruption in the content repository.

Resolves #1608 

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: NodeData property exists even if set to NULL <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1211>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Even if the property is set to `null` `AbstractNodeData::hasProperty()` should return `true`.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: Detect asset://so-me-uu-id links in node properties <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1576>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To detect links to assets as "usage" in the media management, the
search in the NodeDataRepository is amended as needed.

Fixes #1575

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: Only show link to accessible nodes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1579>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixed some misleading text on the listing page and added i18n.

related to #1578.

for 3.x upmerge have a look at https://github.com/ComiR/neos-development-collection/commit/`e2d0e44dd6f21179b2e9eeeac1481ae3a4f8a3f6 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/e2d0e44dd6f21179b2e9eeeac1481ae3a4f8a3f6>`_.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: render asset changes correctly in workspaces overview <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1605>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes asset rendering in the workspace overview.

Fixes #1592.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Avoid orphaned content nodes when calling publishNode() <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1618>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes an issue with using the `PublishingService::publishNode()`
which can result in an inconsistent structure in a user's workspace.

This change also changes the behavior of `PublishingService::discardNode()`
which now will also discard content of a given document node to protect
consistency.

Document nodes and their content must be published or discarded together
in order to protect against inconsistencies when the document node is
moved or removed in one of the base workspaces.

Fixes #1617

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Behat tests fail with fresh checkout <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1616>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes an issue with failing Behat tests caused by
missing isolation between tests.

When certain tests were run in a specific order, they might fail
with an access denied error because no user is authenticated.

Fixes #1613

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.3.13...2.3.14>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
