`2.3.16 (2017-08-18) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.3.16>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Build correct paths to nodes with hidden parents <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1654>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a node is visible but lies beneath a hidden parent, the URI path
generated for that node had "holes" and did not work. This adjusts the
route part handler to return the complete URI including the URI path
segments of hidden nodes in the chain up to the site node.

To disallow showing a node actually hidden itself has to be ensured
in matching a request path, not in building one.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Allow Prototype names starting with digits <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1656>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prototype declarations starting with digits previously were wrongly
parsed and resulted in broken names, this change fixes it by only
casting numeric strings to integers as object keys.

Fixes: #1114 

* Packages: ``TypoScript``

`BUGFIX: TypoScriptView should set response headers correctly <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1653>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The httpVersion which could be set in the `ResponseHeadImplementation`
was not used.

Additionally, if a header had multiple values (which can easily be done in
TypoScript via RawArray) only the first header was actually transferred to
the sent HTTP response.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TypoScript``

`BUGFIX: Fix nodetype thumbnail path in NodeTypeDefinition.rst <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1652>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

corrected path in documentation for thumbnail of nodetype

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Don't cache dynamic segments with disabled \`entryDiscriminator\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1633>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change the caching can be disabled by setting the `entryDiscriminator`
to `false` when using Content Cache mode `dynamic`.

Previously a cache entry was created anyways with the `entryDiscriminator` casted
to an (in this case empty) string.

Background:
The Content Cache mode `dynamic` was introduced in order to allow for more flexible
caching behaviors depending on the context.
But one important feature did not work yet: Being able to *disable* the cache
for certain requests.
With this change performance can be improved by caching the display of an interactive
element (i.e. cache Forms for GET requests)

Related: #1630

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.3.15...2.3.16>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
