`2.3.19 (2017-12-15) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.3.19>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Avoid error if no dimension is set in DimensionsMenuImplementation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1777>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the DimensionsMenuImplementation without a set `dimension`
(yes, there are use cases for that, e.g. hreflang tags for language _and_
country), the following could happen:

    Call to a member function getLabel() on null

This change avoids that.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Fix border-radius on button elements <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1799>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On Chrome (macOS), all `<button>` elements had a `border-radius` of `4px`, which is now removed.


* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Make sure nodes that are to be discarded are actually publishable <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1711>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`TYPO3\\Neos\\Service\\PublishingService` traverses all children of a node to discard that node recursively. Not all those nodes are actually publishable though, so the following batch discard operation fails with the Exception `#1395841899: Nodes in a in a workspace without a base workspace cannot be discarded`.

So, I added a filter to `TYPO3\\Neos\\Service\\PublishingService::discardNode` that removes all nodes from the to-be-discarded list, that are in a different workspace than the given node.

Resolves: #1710

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix wrong TS path in extending pages example <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1754>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fix exception when following documentation about extending pages.

See detailed description and discussion on https://discuss.neos.io/t/1952

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: \`\`NodePropertyConverterService\`\` converts default values <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1782>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Apply property mapping to default value fallbacks in ``NodePropertyConverterService``

Resolves #1781

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: CreateContentContextTrait should use the available SiteReposi… <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1779>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Add generateUriPathSegments check identifier <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1778>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the `generateUriPathSegments` identifier to the `node:repair`
help text.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Fix remove a selectbox option from an existing Node Type documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1761>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Based on this post: https://discuss.neos.io/t/solved-remove-properties-from-nodetype-of-included-package/2751/6

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Long string literals should be supported in Fusion <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1755>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The regex matcher would halt with a catastrophic backtracing error 
if a very long string was given as string literal.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TypoScript``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.3.18...2.3.19>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
