`2.3.22 (2018-03-01) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.3.22>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Filtering of baseNodeType for create new dialog in trees <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1934>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The "baseNodeType" filtering of allowed child node types was not implemented correctly leading to issues when using multiple allow node type filters.

Fixes: #1933 

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Ensure account identifier is always added to events <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1916>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For some events (e.g. copying) the account identifier is not set since it's not initialized.
Instead of doing it manually for each event type it's done before generating an event so it's always done.

Resolves: #1914

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Code cleanup in NodeEvent <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1915>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Improve history module event labels <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1911>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Improves the labels by adding "the" to give it a better flow.
Additionally ensures all labels are in quotation marks.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Remove whitespace from history module node link <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1912>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Without it a space is inserted at first in the quoted link.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Order event log child events by their uid <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1917>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ensure that child events are ordered by their uid to ensure chronological order

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`BUGFIX: Enforce NodeTreePrivilege when filtering node tree <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1868>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the search field or node type filter in the node tree,
the NodeTreePrivilege policies aren't taken into account.

Resolves #1867

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix asset references detection for nodes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1762>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This solves several issues with the implementation of asset usages

* Can be used without logged in user (CLI)
* Lists all references without resulting in errors
* Speed gain if the usages are not actually needed (eg. only counted).

Gives minimal information about "inaccessible" references for now.

Also resolves #1599

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix VH call quote escaping in RelatedAssets.html <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1893>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A call to a VH inside another VH call was not using correctly escaped
single quotes, breaking parsing.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.3.21...2.3.22>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
