`2.3.23 (2018-03-20) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.3.23>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Typo in WorkspaceException #1395841899 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1968>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Duplicate "in a".

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: Fix asset references detection for nodes even more <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1966>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Even after #1762 showing asset usage sometimes fails, with an error
that can only be explained by `documentNode` being null when trying
to render a reference.

This change adds another safety net for that case.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Only move children with the same dimensionHash in setPath() <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1697>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changes the code in setPath() to no longer move all children
across all dimension value combinations. Instead only children with
the same dimensionsHash as the currently moved node will be moved
along.

This avoids errors like the one described in #1696.

Fixes #1696

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: Dynamic cache segments not correctly re-evaluated <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1960>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

...
Only a test to expose the wrong behavior at this point.

Fixes: #1958

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TypoScript``

`BUGFIX: Add null check in getOtherNodeVariants() <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1897>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This avoids a fatal error in case variants of the node are not accessible
for some reason.

Fixes #1896

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`TASK: Improvements to the UserInitials view helper <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1910>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Improves the UserInitials view helper a bit by removing the odd dot and the end of "fullFirstName" and trims the result. Additionally strips special characters from "initials".

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.3.22...2.3.23>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
