`2.3.7 (2016-10-07) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/2.3.7>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Re-add CSS class in edit asset view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1171>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This label class got lost during an upmerge in commit
`a4f1091d25f2d53a1bd31566081ef16c517d47cf <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/a4f1091d25f2d53a1bd31566081ef16c517d47cf>`_.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: Use up-to-date translation method in history module <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1168>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removal of `TranslationHelper::translateById` in Flow `3.3.4` (https://github.com/neos/flow/commit/`09deb9e1e0041f20b7f3ec54af8f1fcbef92e6f0 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/09deb9e1e0041f20b7f3ec54af8f1fcbef92e6f0>`_) broke the `UserInitialsViewHelper` and therefore the history module.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix and amend example in NodeType definition <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1164>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Discard selected nodes which were moved corrupts workspace <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/756>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The "discard selected nodes" feature in the Workspace Review module
leaves orphaned nodes after discarding moved document nodes. The result
is a seemingly empty workspace which in fact still contains nodes.
The workspace can't be deleted. The discarded document node still may
appear in the Content Module's navigation but won't render.

Steps to reproduce based on the Neos demo site:

- start with a clean user workspace
- move the page Download into the page Try me
- go to the review module (Publish Menu -> Review changes)
- select all changes
- press "Discard selected changes"

The document node has been removed, but the child nodes, including the
corresponding shadow nodes, still exist in the database.

Closes #953

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Unpublished new nodes still have shadow nodes after removal <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1167>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When an editor creates a new page and then deletes the page again,
the workspace module will show pending changes because shadow nodes
exist for that delete page. Because the page has never been published,
Neos should just really delete the respective nodes from the user's
workspace instead of creating shadow nodes.

This change checks if a node marked for removal exists at all in one
of the base workspaces and if it doesn't, removes it completely instead
of creating a shadow node.

Resolves #1163

* Packages: ``TYPO3CR``

`BUGFIX: Test using the 2.3 branch of the distribution <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1166>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Fix wrong namespaces <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1162>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``TypoScript``

`BUGFIX: Show delete asset dialog in edit asset media view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1158>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When clicking the delete asset button in the footer of the edit asset view in the media browser/module the dialog isn't shown due to overflow on the sticky footer is hidden. To circumvent this the dialog html is placed outside the footer.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Return default for loadMinifiedJavaScript <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/707>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If config for `TYPO3.Neos.userInterface.loadMinifiedJavaScript` is not set, we return TRUE as default.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Prevent overflow issue when showing delete dialog in sites edit view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1157>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When clicking the delete site button in the sites administration module's edit view, the following buttons jump a little due to overflow issues. This is circumvented by moving the dialog html outside of the footer.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Media browser fixes and improvements <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/532>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes and improves a bunch of different issues related to the media browser.

- Dropdown menu overflow
- Dropdown font size
- Notifications not shown inside media browser (iframe)
- Missing jQuery library when showing asset usages in media browser (iframe)
- Clicking image thumbnail again to close leads to an error
- Clicking image thumbnail and then usages and then cancel goes to overview instead of details
- Clicking image thumbnail in inspector and then clicking the close button leads to an error (fixes #1135)
- Translate labels
- No file selected in upload / replace doesn't display any error
- Make "Asset in use / not in use more clear"
- Clicking image thumbnail and then cancel goes to overview and then clicking an asset leads to an error
- Adjust styling of asset details in thumbnail view
- Translate flash message when deleting used asset

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Clean up and fix .gitgnore files a bit <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1154>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Re-add ContentModule-built.js <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1153>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ContentModule-built.js has accidentally be removed during an upmerge
from 2.1 to 2.2 in commit `4efb95cf46db796d2171d63279f93d970405bef8 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/4efb95cf46db796d2171d63279f93d970405bef8>`_.

This change adds a recently compiled file again.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/2.3.6...2.3.7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
