=====
4.3.0
=====

Automatic image variants generation
===================================
Automatically generate variants of an original image based on the newly introduced image variant presets configuration.

In this first version, variants are automatically created as soon as an asset is created – for example, when it has been
uploaded by an editor or otherwise been imported. Future versions may defer this generation into a job queue, or provide
a way to put conditions of the generation of these variants.

See the included documentation for configuration syntax and further background.

This change also includes a basic view displaying all variants of an asset in the edit view of the Media Browser.
While this new view (implemented as a tab) may be useful already, it is neither especially polished nor does it provide
additional features.
Therefore it is disabled by a feature switch for now. See the ``Settings.yaml`` of ``Neos.Media.Browser``
for details on enabling the tab.

Enable Loops in Fusion AFX without ``@children`` annotation
===========================================================

Fusion AFX uses the ``content`` key by default to render children. Since collections and loops
use ``itemRenderer`` to define the inner content ``@children=itemRenderer`` had to be declared
in the past. To overcome this, loop and derived prototypes now got a fallback from ``itemRenderer``
to content. This avoids a common error in AFX code.

Native 404 error rendering that can be controlled via Fusion
============================================================
This change adds the default Fusion path ``error`` that is used to render status messages
for the status codes 403, 404 and 410.

The matcher receives the context values ``exception``, ``renderingOptions``, ``statusCode``,
 ``statusMessage`` and ``referenceCode`` and will by default render the previous template.

By extending the ``error`` case you can add custom 404 rendering like in the example below.

.. code-block: javascript

  #
  # Extend error matcher to render the document with uriPathSegment ``notfound``
  # for exceptions with 4xx status code
  #
  error {
      @context.notfoundDocument = ${q(site).children('[instanceof Neos.Neos:Document]').filter('[uriPathSegment="notfound"]').get(0)}

      4xx {
          @position = 'start'
          condition = ${statusCode >= 400 && statusCode < 500 && notfoundDocument}
          renderer = Neos.Fusion:Renderer {
              @context.node = ${notfoundDocument}
              renderPath = '/root'
          }
      }
  }


Set crop image adjustment by aspect ratio
=========================================
This change introduces a new property "aspectRatio" for the crop image
adjustment. It allows users to set a cropping area simply by providing
an aspect ratio, instead of x, y, width and height.

If an aspect ratio is specified, the x, y, width, and height parameters
are automatically deactivated. Likewise, if x, y, width or height are
specified, a potentially defined aspect ratio value will be reset.

Add ``format`` option for image-prototypes, viewHelpers and presets
===================================================================
The option ``format`` is added to imagePresets, viewHelpers and FusionPrototypes.
The format is passed as string ``jpg``, ``jpeg``, ``gif``, ``png``, ``wbmp``, ``xbm``, ``webp`` and ``bmp`` are supported.
If no format is given the crops will use the format of the original image.

This allows to enforce rendering of crops in jpeg or png but also adds support for rendering
of webp-images as alternate sources.

.. note::

    The selected imagine-diver has to support both the source and the target image format for a successful conversion.
    Especially the ``Gd`` driver lacks some features in this regard. So please test your driver if you are using
    format like ``webp`` or ``tiff``.

Additionally the option ``convertFormats`` is added to settings to automatically convert non-web images into
web images. The example shows how to configure Neos to automatically convert tiff images to jpg.

.. code-block: yaml

  Neos:
    Media:
      image:
        defaultOptions:
          # Image formats that shall always be converted regardless wether an adjustment was applied or not
          # The key is the the source media-type and the value is the target media-type or file-extension.
          convertFormats:
            image/tiff: image/jpeg

Add ``Neos.Neos:MenuItems``, ``Neos.Neos:DimensionMenuItems`` and ``Neos.Neos:BreadcrumbMenuItems`` prototypes
==============================================================================================================
Three new fusion prototypes are added that extract the rendering of the ``items`` that are passed to the template from
``Neos.Neos:Menu``, ``Neos.Neos:BreadcrumbMenu`` and ``Neos.Neos:DimensionsMenu`` and make those items available for
direct Fusion use without Template.
In addition the ``Neos.Neos:*Menu`` prototypes are now based on ``Neos.Neos:Template`` and do not have a custom
implementation any more.

*Attention: This change removes the old MenuImplementation classes. Those are not part of the API so this is still
non-breaking since the ``*Menu``fusion prototypes still support all previous options by beeing based on
``Neos.Fusion:Template`` now instead of extending the TemplateImplementation class.*

Trigger signal when Thumbnail is persisted
==========================================
Added a signal ``thumbnailPersisted`` and an ORM lifecycle callback that triggers the signal once the thumbnail is persisted.

Add NodeLink fusion prototype
=============================
The ``Neos.Neos:NodeLink`` Fusion prototype has been added which renders an ``<a>`` tag based on ``Neos.Neos:NodeUri``,
similar to ``Neos.Neos:ImageTag`` and ``Neos.Neos:ImageUri``.

All properties of ``Neos.Neos:NodeUri`` are supported and passed on attributes (:ref:Neos_Fusion__Attributes) Link tag
attributes content (string) The label of the link, defaults to the node label ``q(node).property('_label')``.
This helps reducing code lines, especially when using Fusion AFX. With this prototype you can now directly link
nodes in an AFX renderer.

Hide property ``target`` of Neos.Neos.ShortCut depending on targetMode
======================================================================
I added configuration to the shortcut node type definition to hide the target-property in the UI when targetMode is not
``selectedTarget`` Insert a shortcut node. You should not see the target-property until you change
the targetMode to ``selectedTarget``.


Potentially breaking changes (unplanned extensibility)
======================================================

Moved new NodeInterface and TraversableNodeInterface to core
============================================================
Introduced the event-sourced ``NodeInterface`` and ``TraversableNodeInterface`` in the core
and made the "old" ``Node`` implement ``TraversableNodeInterface`` as far as possible.
Also adjusted FlowQuery operations to work on the new ``TraversableNodeInterface`` wherever it makes sense.

This change is necessary to ensure a smooth upgrade later on to the Event Sourced CR so people working with
``NodeInterface`` in their custom code can already start using ``TraversableNodeInterface`` today.

Upgraded our internal testing suite to latest neos/behat version
================================================================
In case you have Behat tests in place but did not set your own Behat version in the dev dependencies in your own,
there might be some changes that could break your tests within the Behat version that is now acquired by Flow / Neos.
