=====
5.2.0
=====

This is a planned feature release and includes the following new feature as well as some bugfixes.

Update procedure includes updating dependencies and running `./flow doctrine:migrate` as for  most updates.

================
What has changed
================

FEATURE: Reduced stylesheet for backend modules
===============================================
The old stylesheets from pre-react times override a lot of basic styles for backend modules.
This makes it hard to implement custom styles there or use our react ui components.

With this change it's possible to configure a "Lite" and a "Minimal" variant of the Neos backend stylesheet via the module configuration.

The old "Main" stylesheet variant is kept for compatibility reasons.

The "Lite" stylesheet should be used with almost all modules and will also be used for the core modules.
It also provides all relevant Neos CSS variables and is about 50% smaller than the old one.

The "Minimal" stylesheet should be used for modules that bring their own styles. For example modules that use the Neos react-components library.
It also provides all relevant Neos CSS variables and is about 70% smaller than the old one.

Example:

.. code-block: yaml
  Neos:
    modules:
      management: # Or any other module group
        submodules:
          myModule:
            controller: \\My\\Site\\Controller\\MyModuleController
            label: 'My module'
            description: 'My module'
            icon: 'fas fa-camera'
            privilegeTarget: 'My.Site:ManageMyModule'
            mainStylesheet: 'Lite' # Or 'Minimal', default is 'Main'


FEATURE: Fusion performance optimization (lazy Component props)
===============================================================

Components provide a nice way to structure Fusion code but prevent lazy evaluation as Fusion by default does eager evaluation of all properties as `props`.
If conditions are used inside the `renderer`, it's quite probable that not all props are used - so a large amount of unnecessary evaluations could be performed.

This change introduces a `LazyProps` object implementing `ArrayAccess` that evaluates the actually accessed `props` lazily (and caches the results).

FEATURE: Reduce backend load time with nodetype schema cache
============================================================
This prevents the generation of the nodetype schema on every backend reload.

Load times for Neos instances with lots of nodetypes
are reduced by several seconds depending on the setup.
Also the response has a cache header to allow the browser to keep the result longer.

This also helps in development context as the `version` parameter changes when the nodetypes change.
Therefore changing Fusion and reloading is faster ;)

FEATURE: Sortable NodeType Post processors
==========================================
Allows a `position` to be specified in the NodeType `postprocessors` configuration:

.. code-block: yaml
  'Some.Custom:NodeType':
    # ...
    postprocessors:
      SomeCustomTypePostprocessor:
        position: 'end'
        postprocessor: 'Some\\TypePostprocessor'

FEATURE: Icons and description for asset sources
================================================
Icons and descriptions can now be provided by the asset source.
The icon makes the asset source easier to identify while the description can provide further information or a link to the asset source as required by some free asset source API guidelines.

To make your AssetSources compatible with Neos 7.x add the methods
* `public function getIconUri(): string`
* `public function getDescription(): string;`

to your asset source.

FEATURE: Upgrade to fontawesome 5.12.1
======================================
Adds new icons.

FEATURE: Allow more than one authentication provider
====================================================
Implemented the changes to allow more than one authentication provider.
Please note: This PR does not cover the issues that arise when more than one account is associated with a single Neos user. It only allows one account per user (a limitation that already exists right now, though).
Instead of always using the default authentication provider (Neos.Neos:Backend) to retrieve a user or username, the authentication provider associated with the respective account is used (also see #940).

FEATURE: Keep tags and collections of assets when exporting sites
=================================================================
With this change tags and collections of assets are included in site exports to XML and are imported properly, too.

FEATURE: Freely position content collections
============================================
Together with https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/pull/2609 and https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/pull/2667
this change allows to have a `Neos.Neos:Content` nodetype
that is also a `Neos.Neos:ContentCollection` and have one
or more wrapping tags around the Fusion `Neos.Neos:ContentCollection`.

To specify the point for inserting children of a content collection in your markup,
you add an attribute on the container element: `data-__neos-insertion-anchor`.
If found, that container will be used for inserting new items, otherwise the parent
element (as usual).

Without the change in the UI new nodes are added into the outermost div instead
of the collection div.
