=====
2.2.0
=====


User experience improvements
============================

- The styling of the user interface has been improved in many places (`checkboxes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/457>`_, `dropdowns <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/459>`_, radio buttons, `active inspector tab <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/456>`_, `help message icon <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/453>`_, `error notifications <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/424>`_, …)
- `Inspector groups can now be assigned icons <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/455>`_ to help identify them more easily.
- The structure tree has been improved (`configurable loading depth <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/451>`_, `selectable nodes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/443>`_, `node type changes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/442>`_, …).
- All `dialogs are centered vertically <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/434>`_ now.
- The Workspaces module has been improved with better date/time handling, styling fixes, …
- Insert panel groups `are now collapsible <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/418>`_.
- `Sortable options in selector editors <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/338>`_  (select, references, asset list).
- Editors can now `switch between sites without logging in again <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/356>`_.
- Preview uses the `target workspace instead of live <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/399>`_ if applicable.

Documentation improvements
==========================

The documentation of Neos and Flow has been improved through a number of bugfixes and additions.

Media management improvements
=============================

Images in CMYK colorspace will be converted into RGB colorspace during the processing of images (not supported when uding GD). The original image will still been kept in the original colorspace. The conversion can be disabled by setting the configuration ``TYPO3.Media.image.convertCMYKToRGB`` to false.

A new view in the media browser displays information about which nodes an asset is referenced in and where the nodes can actually be found across workspaces, content dimensions and sites.

The sorting in the media browser is now split in sort by and sort direction to sort the asset list independently.

Cross-site linking
==================

Options for scheme and port have been added to site domains to enable setting them for cross-site linking. Additionally a primary flag to site domains to enable selecting them as the primary domain for a site has been added.

When linking to a node the primary domain of the site the node belongs to is taking into account. This allows for correct cross-site linking instead of creating an invalid link to a non-existing node with the existing site's URL.

Improved thumbnail generation
=============================

- `Thumbnail generator fixes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/295>`_
- `SVG Thumbnail Generator should keep track of width / height <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/289>`_
- `FontDocumentThumbnailGenerator must respect thumbnail width/height <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/290>`_

Search nodes by property & exact value in NodeDataRepository
============================================================

It is no longer only possible to search through the properties by giving a string that matches for any key or value found in the
jsonified properties field. Instead, the term can also be an array to match exactly on a given key / value combination. See the `PR #1 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1>`_ for details.

Update to latest Font Awesome
=============================

Neos now ships the Font Awesome, version 4.5.0. This allows integrators to select from a wider range of icons for node types, inspector groups and other uses.

All icons are prefixed with "icon-" and old icon-names from version 3.2.1 are still available for backwards compatibility.

Further additions
=================

In addition to the larger features, lots of small improvements and bugfixes have been included in Neos 2.2, among them:

- `Translate process is broken for dimensions without fallbacks <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/392>`_
- `Editing asset collection <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/476>`_
- `Introduce interface to customize the default TS prototype <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/473>`_
- `Add settings to customize login screen stylesheets <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/285>`_
- `Implement new Login-Screen <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/472>`_
- `Backend fails to load due to RequireJS timeout <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/463>`_
- `Use and improve node label <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/448>`_
- `Only update changed model properties <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/450>`_
- `Don't show error notification on cancelled page loads <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/449>`_
- `Aloha table mode issues <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/447>`_
- `Improved countByParentAndNodeType performance <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4>`_
- `Prevent edit / preview rendering path from applying to front-end <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/429>`_
- `Correct timezone offset in node info inspector view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/441>`_
- `Display node label instead of node type label in workspace overview <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/420>`_
- `Use stable identifier for auto-created child nodes in repair <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/389>`_
- `Creating pages using non-latin characters <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/394>`_
- `Node constraints for auto created node types in structure tree <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/405>`_
- `Image crop selection incorrect on small screens <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/404>`_
- `Ignore empty NodeType configurations <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/367>`_
- `Content Collection nodes vanish when publishing to nested workspace <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/372>`_
- `Event logging tweaks & fixes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/274>`_
- `Refresh NodeTree if Workspace is switched <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/334>`_
- `Reintroduce PublishingService <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/315>`_
- `Show content element after copy paste inline <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/309>`_


See also the full `release notes <https://jira.neos.io/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=10000&version=11410>`_ and `changelog <http://neos.readthedocs.org/en/2.2/Appendixes/ChangeLogs/220.html>`_

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Upgrade instructions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

See https://www.neos.io/download-and-extend/upgrade-instructions-2-1-2-2.html

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
!!! Breaking changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- `Set useful defaults for Menu <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/195>`_

   This is breaking if you rely on the previous behavior with no defaults set for the two values.

- The demo site package is now called `Neos.Demo`, watch out if you somehow use the old one.

**Further details can be found in the commit messages of the changes**

.. note::

   Additionally all changes in Flow 3.2 apply, see the release notes to further information.
   See http://flowframework.readthedocs.org/en/3.2/TheDefinitiveGuide/PartV/ReleaseNotes/320.html
