h2. SproutCore Tips and Tricks

After reading this guide, you will be able to:

* Gain a better understanding of SproutCore.

endprologue.

h3. Dealing with classes and objects

* Always extend from +SC.Object+ (or a subclass)
* Extension is done using +SC.Object.extend({...})+
* Never use @new@ to instanciate new objects. Instead, use +TheObject.create(...)+
* All objects have generic +set(key, value)+ and +get(key)+ methods, *which should be used
  under all circumstances*!

The following example shows this:

<javascript>
var Foo = SC.Object.extend({
	someValue: 'hello',
	myMethod: function() {
		alert(this.get('someValue'));
	}
});

var fooInstance = Foo.create({
	someValue: 'world'
});
fooInstance.myMethod(); // outputs "world"
</javascript>

Inheritance can be used just as in PHP, since Sproutcure binds a special +._super()+ function for every
method call (in fact the function is wrapped to create this special @_super@ method). So calling the current method
of the superclass can be done without specifying the superclass and method name.

<javascript>
var Foo = SC.Object.extend({
	greet: function(name) {
		return 'Hello, ' + name;
	}
});
var Bar = Foo.extend({
	greet: function(name) {
		return 'Aloha and ' + this._super(name);
	}
});

Bar.create().greet('Phoenix'); // outputs "Aloha and Hello, Phoenix"
</javascript>

h3. Data Binding tips and tricks

To create a *computed property*, implement it as function and append +.property()+:

<javascript>
var Foo = SC.Object.extend({
	someComputedValue: function() {
		return "myMethod";
	}.property()

});
</javascript>

If your computed property reads other values, specify the dependent values as
parameters to @property()@. If the computed property is deterministic and depends only on the
dependant values, it should be marked further with @.cacheable()@.

<javascript>
var Foo = SC.Object.extend({
	name: 'world',
	greeting: function() {
		return "Hello " + this.attr('name');
	}.property('name').cacheable()

});
</javascript>

Now, every time @name@ changes, the system re-evaluates @greeting@.

NOTE: Forgetting @.cacheable()@ can have severe performance penalties and result
      in circular loops, in worst case freezing the browser completely.

h4. Views and Bindings

WARNING: Not yet 100% clear yet

TODO: Document the "fooBinding: "... stuff

h4. Observe changes

To react on changes of properties in models or views (or any other class extending @SC.Observable@), a method marked as an observer can be used. Call
@.observes('propertyName')@ on a private method to be notified whenever a property changes.

<javascript>
var Foo = SC.Object.extend({
	name: 'world',
	_nameDidChange: function() {
		console.log('name changed to', this.get('name'));
	}.observes('name')
});
</javascript>

h3. Changelog

* July 11, 2011: Initial version by "Sebastian Kurfürst":credits.html#skurfuerst
* July 11, 2011: Some more insight from "Christopher Hlubek":credits.html#hlubek
