`3.0.1 (2017-02-15) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/3.0.1>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Adding media element to tag or asset collection <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1414>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adding a media asset to a tag or collection in the thumbnail in the media browser by dragging it fails.

Resolves #1413

* Packages: ``Browser``

`TASK: Remove deprecated getters for \`\`userWorkspace\`\` and name <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1393>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are fully replaced by
``\\Neos\\Neos\\Service\UserService::getPersonalWorkspace``
and
``\\Neos\\Neos\\Service\UserService::getPersonalWorkspaceName``

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Remove TYPO3 & TypoScript in the Fusion documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1418>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the [documentation](https://neos.readthedocs.io/en/stable/References/) are still some references to TYPO3 and TypoScript. This PR fix it for the fusion part

* Packages: ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Replace leftover occurrence of \`\`typoScriptRenderingPath\`\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1419>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Make fusion-parser aspectable <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1410>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fusion parser cloned itself previously to handle includes but to keep the defined namespaces.
That made the use of aspects impossible since they were only applied on the initially created instance of the parser.

This change fixes this by using a new instance of the parser for each include and transfers the namespaces explicitly to the new parser.

`BUGFIX: Correctly require \`\`exec\`\` instead of \`\`system\`\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1415>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation requested ``system`` to be enabled but in fact ``exec``
is used for proxy building in Flow.

Related: neos/flow-development-collection#634

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Use setFusionPathPattern() in HistoryController <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1411>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The view was updated to `FusionView`, but `setTypoScriptPathPattern` was still called.
I updated it to the correct method `setFusionPathPattern`.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: RemoveNodePrivilege blocks editing <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/341>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The RemoveNodePrivilege would block editing of nodes completely, since
the inspector would send all properties of a node, but the setter for
"removed" was blocked by the privilege.

Now the privilege only matches on setRemoved(true) and thus only blocks
what it should block.

Fixes #896 

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/3.0.0...3.0.1>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
