`3.0.2 (2017-03-10) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/3.0.2>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Avoid stuck tooltip in node tree <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1450>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This switches (bootstrap) tooltips from being triggered on hover
and focus to just hover. This avoids the tooltip being activated e.g.
by expand a subtree.

Should fix #1386

`BUGFIX: Only show remove button when image selected in ImageEditor <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1446>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Do not show the "remove" button in ImageEditor when no image is selected.

`BUGFIX: Limit VIE to predicates with custom namespace <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1452>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of applying VIE to all elements with `[rel]` or `[property]` attributes,
only apply to those starting prefixed with the `typo3` namespace.

This prevents side effects for other tags like `<a href="#" rel="nofollow">Link</a>`.

Resolves #1449

`BUGFIX: Add missing colons to resourcepaths in documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1444>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds missing colons to the resource paths in the examples on selecting a page template.

`BUGFIX: Fix changelog and release note rendering <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1441>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a few places and adjusts some files so the 3.0 branch has proper
release notes and changelog rendering.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Adjust policy-matchers after deprecation of userWorkspaceName to personalWorkspaceName <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1442>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: getPersonalWorkspace()->getName() replaced with getPersonalWorkspaceName() <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1436>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`f13a82c2d9d5a3185889d21c4cbfca4dbdfde579 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/f13a82c2d9d5a3185889d21c4cbfca4dbdfde579>`_ introduced a regression: No workspace is created for new users.

This fixes it.

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Document width and height property in ImageUri Fusion-prototype <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1431>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This documents changes that were introduced in Neos 2.0 with revision `75430099fe2dbd3646eb549dac5e9778abf4c82a <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/75430099fe2dbd3646eb549dac5e9778abf4c82a>`_.

`TASK: Documentation adjustments <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1430>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a small example to the Eel Helpers Reference (Array.indexOf).
Adds an example on how to use the help messages inside properties (Property Editor Reference).

`TASK: Prefix \`uriPathSegment\` field inspector validator <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1428>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I changed the non prefixed `regularExpression`-validator to the correct `TYPO3.Neos/Validation/RegularExpressionValidator`-validator

**How to test**

You could easily try to change the `uriPathSegment` on every document node type.

`BUGFIX: Initialization of asset usage strategies <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1427>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a regression introduced in https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1323,
causing the asset usage strategies to never be initialized.

Closes #1425

`BUGFIX: Require ~4.0 of neos/form <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1424>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The 3.0 branch of neos/form is not compatible with the current codebase.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/3.0.1...3.0.2>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
