`3.0.3 (2017-04-05) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/3.0.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Remove occurences of TYPO3 in Neos.Fusion <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1502>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Fusion``

`BUGFIX: Fix upmerge mistake in ResizeImageAdjustment <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1516>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The wrong namespace/vendor name was pulled in from the 2.3 branch
during an upmerge.

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Allow choice of filter for resizing images <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1513>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The resize filter can have considerable impact on file size and
processing power needed to do the resize, it's therefore sensible
to give the user a choice in this.

Additionally removes copying the image as that is entirely unnecessary
and impacts memory usage profoundly.

`BUGFIX: Fix the infinite loop if a fusion object can not be resolved <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1496>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Fusion``

`BUGFIX: Fix some Sphinx rendering errors <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1487>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- TASK: Bring back old release notes
- BUGFIX: Fix some Sphinx rendering errors

* Packages: ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Add default editorOptions to settings <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1505>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add default editorOptions to settings for the new react ui [https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/issues/641](https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/issues/641)

`BUGFIX: Correct typo in plugin's Settings.yaml <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1498>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
- Changed  to  in Settings.yaml. It needs to be lower-case in order to work properly.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Adjust DocTools settings <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1491>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes #1490

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Media`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Use findNodesByPathPrefixAndRelatedEntities <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1497>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 in getRelatedNodeMethod

`BUGFIX: Add mysql-index for the field \`parentpath\` in the \`nodeData\`-table <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1478>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The find operation is currently very expensive because of an unoptimized LIKE statement.
This index will to optimize the performance for find operations especially in larger cr-instances

The size of the index is a compromise between space and an assumption of the normal length of the nodePath.

`BUGFIX: MediaModule asset edit should not fail <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1485>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

if no Site is defined.

**How to verify it**

- delete your sites in the site management
- got to the media browser and open an image

An exception occurres.

See: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/1483

`BUGFIX: NodePropertiesStrategy in Neos should only handle site nodes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1486>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the AssetUsageInNodePropertiesStrategy handles
all asset references in all nodes in the node data table.
The handling than is specific for nodes under the `/site` root node
and fails when a node references an asset that is located under another root.

This fixes the issue by only selecting site nodes.

**What I did**
Filter the nodes by site root.

**How to verify it**
Add an asset reference to a node that is not under sites.
The edit view of an asset fails.

`BUGFIX: Configuration reference nested twice <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1484>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This causes issues with search results and creates confusion.

`BUGFIX: Fix EXTRACT_CONTENT_TYPE_PATTERN namespace use <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1467>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Make NodeTemplateConverter::EXTRACT_CONTENT_TYPE_PATTERN match against
`Neos\\ContentRepository\\…`.

Fixes #1466

* Packages: ``ContentRepository``

`BUGFIX: Opening context menu in media browser list view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1409>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Backports `f169275c9a05071531dc5bd9b3d2533ebf093184 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/f169275c9a05071531dc5bd9b3d2533ebf093184>`_ and `d4efa8b305c925aa4e8482db74d5eaf8da9817dc <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/d4efa8b305c925aa4e8482db74d5eaf8da9817dc>`_ from the 3.0 branch.

closes #1408

`BUGFIX: Check for existing node data property works with null <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1440>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``AbstractNodeData::hasProperty()`` method checked
the existence of the given property with ``isset`` but that
leads to an exception if the property has a ``null`` value.
The check has been changed to ``array_key_exists``.

Same is done in the optimization check to avoid setting
existing values again in ``AbstractNodeData::setProperty``.

Resolves #1174

`TASK: Fix "undefined class" warnings <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1465>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mostly fixes comments, but some use statements as well.

Also removes some dead code that was not removed along with the
deprecated NodeDataLabelGeneratorInterface.

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Media`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: If thumbnail refresh fails, handle gracefully <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1459>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If refreshing a thumbnail fails (e.g. because a PDF cannot be converted
correctly), the media module dies with an exception screen.

This change catches and logs the error, and returns null as result. This
leads to a missing thumbnail, but the media management stays usable.

`TASK: Declare dependency on PHP 7 for Neos.Neos <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1462>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Make layout sliding query match properly <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1422>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The page layout determination in `DefaultTypoScript.ts2` contains the query

`q(node).parents('[subpageLayout]').first().property('subpageLayout')`

However that immediately also matches nodes which have `subpageLayout` being an empty string, hence this being taken into account. This results in an empty value, even if there would be actual set layouts higher above.

The `.parents()` part need to be replaced with `.parents('[subpageLayout][subpageLayout != ""]')`

Fixes #1117

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/3.0.2...3.0.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
