`3.1.0 (2017-04-27) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/3.1.0>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Fix the NodeTypes schema files and allow properties \`search\` and \`options\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1432>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The NodeType schemas can now handle the case that a property in a NodeType definition can be either a dictionary or null.

Additionally the keys `search`  and `options` as extension point for package-configuration.

The key `search` is used by several search implementations and currently causes validation errors.
The key `options` is allowed to avoid such problems in the future and to create a place where packages can place custom configuration.

`TASK: Add release notes for 3.1 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1532>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Release notes for Neos 3.1

Fixes #1488 

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix Neos.Fusion:Debug example <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1540>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Rename legacy strings in comments <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1533>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change renames TS / TypoScript and TYPO3
left overs in comments all over the package.
No code changes included.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Improve documentation on plugin creation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1454>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The file Policy.yaml is missing in Sarkosh.CdCollection, clearly point out
it needs to be created.

Also explain that packages need to be rescanned (or the cache needs to
be flushed) before you can use the plugin after the optional move to a
"Plugins" folder.

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`BUGFIX: Allow content dimension preset translation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1522>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
Tranlate content dimension labels.

**How I did it**
Just like it is already done for dimension labels

**How to verify it**
Add content dimension. Enter translation id as label. Add id in your translation. Enjoy!

`TASK: Update badges to 3.1 branch <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1531>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`BUGFIX: Fix code migrations to prevent unnecessary changes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1530>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adjusts two code migrations (in a backwards compatible manner)
so that they don't produce invalid YAML files.

Background:

The two migrations `TYPO3.TYPO3CR-130523180140` and `TYPO3.Neos.NodeTypes-201309111655`
both replace some "superType"/"childNode" NodeType settings.
In cases where those already use the suggested format `['<value>' => true]` this leads
to invalid results (`['<value>' => '1']`).
With `TYPO3.TYPO3CR-20150510103823` these invalid values are fixed again, but applying
all migrations lead to three unnecessary commits, possibly corrupting the configuration
and/or removing important comments.

Fixes: #1351

`TASK: allow to require stable version of \`flow-development-collection\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1528>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This relaxes the constraints in order to be able to run stable versions of our development collections.

This is useful when you want to say use beard in production, without having to use the -dev versions.

`BUGFIX: Correct the NodeType schema of a nulled fusion.prototypeGenerator <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1473>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The type 'null' has to be written in quotes to be distinguished from the NULL value of yaml.

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Add tests for node name generation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1525>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tests to prove neos/neos-development-collection#1524

`BUGFIX: No uppercase characters allowed in node names <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1524>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The changed generation of node names must avoid uppercase characters.

This is a followup to neos/neos-development-collection#1523

`TASK: Use generateRandomString() instead of uniqid() <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1523>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reduces the risk of collision on temporary names for nodes and
files, as well as cache markers.

`BUGFIX: Asset should return same extension as attached resource <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1519>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Using the resource media type to find an extension for an asset
is suboptimal because the asset knows the extension directly and
the media type -> extension conversion is ambiguous so you might
end up with a different extension than the resource has afterwards.

`TASK: Corrected naming in documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1518>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Replaces ``TYPO3.Neos`` with ``Neos.Neos``

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Enable translations for labels of the Site Management module <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1501>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

- Add translation for labels with none in the XLIFF files to enable the translation to other languages
- Eliminated labels with duplicated IDs and different values
- Some simple sorting and cleanup of the XLIFF files

**How I did it**
- I took the labels of the templates and searched the XLIFF files for them
- I put the specific Site Management labels to `Modules.xlf`
- I put the generic labels to `Main.xlf`

**How to verify it**
- Login to the backend and go to the Site Management module
- Click through it and check whether there are corrupted labels
- The labels should look like before

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Remove occurences of TYPO3 in Neos.Fusion <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1502>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Fusion``

`BUGFIX: Fix upmerge mistake in ResizeImageAdjustment <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1516>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The wrong namespace/vendor name was pulled in from the 2.3 branch
during an upmerge.

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Include configuration reference in TOC <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1515>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration reference was no longer included in the documentation TOC
at all, after a recent fix aimed at no longer including it twice.

`BUGFIX: Allow choice of filter for resizing images <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1513>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The resize filter can have considerable impact on file size and
processing power needed to do the resize, it's therefore sensible
to give the user a choice in this.

Additionally removes copying the image as that is entirely unnecessary
and impacts memory usage profoundly.

`TASK: Improve documentation Installation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1499>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change

- updates screenshots with new logo in documentation
- adds step "Neos requirements" to documentation
- adds info on "AllowOverride directive" to documentation

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Add "User Settings" to documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1508>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a page on „User Settings“ to the documentation, explaining how to change
your personal data.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Update screenshots in "User Interface Basics" <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1504>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This updates the screenshots of the complete user interface
and adds screenshots of user interface details.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Change login wallpaper for 3.1 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1503>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
Changed the picture.

**How I did it**
Travelled to iceland, walked up the canyon. Fearlessly leant over the cliff.

Resolves #1481

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix the infinite loop if a fusion object can not be resolved <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1496>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Fusion``

`BUGFIX: Fix some Sphinx rendering errors <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1487>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- TASK: Bring back old release notes
- BUGFIX: Fix some Sphinx rendering errors

* Packages: ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Add default editorOptions to settings <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1505>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add default editorOptions to settings for the new react ui [https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/issues/641](https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/issues/641)

`BUGFIX: Correct typo in plugin's Settings.yaml <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1498>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
- Changed  to  in Settings.yaml. It needs to be lower-case in order to work properly.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Set \`ArrayConverter\` as node property default type converter <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1472>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<!--
Thanks for your contribution, we appreciate it!

Please read through our pull request guidelines, there are some interesting things there:
https://discuss.neos.io/t/creating-a-pull-request/506

And one more thing... Don't forget about the tests!
-->

Hi @kitsunet,

this refactoring was done at the NEOS Sprint. Let's review it together.

Best
Jo (@joachimmathes) and Dani (@dgrammlich)

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Adjust DocTools settings <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1491>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes #1490

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Media`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Use findNodesByPathPrefixAndRelatedEntities <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1497>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 in getRelatedNodeMethod

`BUGFIX: Add mysql-index for the field \`parentpath\` in the \`nodeData\`-table <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1478>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The find operation is currently very expensive because of an unoptimized LIKE statement.
This index will to optimize the performance for find operations especially in larger cr-instances

The size of the index is a compromise between space and an assumption of the normal length of the nodePath.

`BUGFIX: MediaModule asset edit should not fail <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1485>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

if no Site is defined.

**How to verify it**

- delete your sites in the site management
- got to the media browser and open an image

An exception occurres.

See: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/1483

`BUGFIX: NodePropertiesStrategy in Neos should only handle site nodes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1486>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently the AssetUsageInNodePropertiesStrategy handles
all asset references in all nodes in the node data table.
The handling than is specific for nodes under the `/site` root node
and fails when a node references an asset that is located under another root.

This fixes the issue by only selecting site nodes.

**What I did**
Filter the nodes by site root.

**How to verify it**
Add an asset reference to a node that is not under sites.
The edit view of an asset fails.

`TASK: Add transitive dependencies to Neos packages <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1455>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Fusion`` ``Media`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes`` ``SiteKickstarter``

`BUGFIX: Configuration reference nested twice <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1484>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This causes issues with search results and creates confusion.

`BUGFIX: Fix EXTRACT_CONTENT_TYPE_PATTERN namespace use <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1467>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Make NodeTemplateConverter::EXTRACT_CONTENT_TYPE_PATTERN match against
`Neos\\ContentRepository\\…`.

Fixes #1466

* Packages: ``ContentRepository``

`BUGFIX: Opening context menu in media browser list view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1409>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Backports `f169275c9a05071531dc5bd9b3d2533ebf093184 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/f169275c9a05071531dc5bd9b3d2533ebf093184>`_ and `d4efa8b305c925aa4e8482db74d5eaf8da9817dc <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/d4efa8b305c925aa4e8482db74d5eaf8da9817dc>`_ from the 3.0 branch.

closes #1408

`BUGFIX: Check for existing node data property works with null <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1440>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``AbstractNodeData::hasProperty()`` method checked
the existence of the given property with ``isset`` but that
leads to an exception if the property has a ``null`` value.
The check has been changed to ``array_key_exists``.

Same is done in the optimization check to avoid setting
existing values again in ``AbstractNodeData::setProperty``.

Resolves #1174

`TASK: Fix "undefined class" warnings <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1465>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mostly fixes comments, but some use statements as well.

Also removes some dead code that was not removed along with the
deprecated NodeDataLabelGeneratorInterface.

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Media`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: If thumbnail refresh fails, handle gracefully <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1459>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If refreshing a thumbnail fails (e.g. because a PDF cannot be converted
correctly), the media module dies with an exception screen.

This change catches and logs the error, and returns null as result. This
leads to a missing thumbnail, but the media management stays usable.

`TASK: Adjust more Behat-related code to PhpUnit 6 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1464>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Adjust Behat-related code to PhpUnit 6 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1461>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Declare dependency on PHP 7 for Neos.Neos <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1462>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: remove arguments argument for NodeUri <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1423>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fusion argument 'arguments' in NodeUriImplementation was never used. The documentation was confusing saying it is possible to use 'arguments' argument in Fusion.

**What I did**

Removed `arguments` argument from `NodeUri` documentation.
Removed `getArguments()` method from `NodeUriImplementation` because it was never used.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Avoid stuck tooltip in node tree <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1450>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This switches (bootstrap) tooltips from being triggered on hover
and focus to just hover. This avoids the tooltip being activated e.g.
by expand a subtree.

Should fix #1386

`FEATURE: Add support for image presets in Fusion <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1437>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add image preset support for `Neos.Neos:ImageUri` and `Neos.Neos:ImageTag`.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Only show remove button when image selected in ImageEditor <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1446>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Do not show the "remove" button in ImageEditor when no image is selected.

`BUGFIX: Limit VIE to predicates with custom namespace <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1452>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Instead of applying VIE to all elements with `[rel]` or `[property]` attributes,
only apply to those starting prefixed with the `typo3` namespace.

This prevents side effects for other tags like `<a href="#" rel="nofollow">Link</a>`.

Resolves #1449

`BUGFIX: Add missing colons to resourcepaths in documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1444>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds missing colons to the resource paths in the examples on selecting a page template.

`TASK: Only show remove button when image selected in ImageEditor <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1426>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix changelog and release note rendering <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1441>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a few places and adjusts some files so the 3.0 branch has proper
release notes and changelog rendering.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Adjust policy-matchers after deprecation of userWorkspaceName to personalWorkspaceName <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1442>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: getPersonalWorkspace()->getName() replaced with getPersonalWorkspaceName() <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1436>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`f13a82c2d9d5a3185889d21c4cbfca4dbdfde579 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/f13a82c2d9d5a3185889d21c4cbfca4dbdfde579>`_ introduced a regression: No workspace is created for new users.

This fixes it.

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Document width and height property in ImageUri Fusion-prototype <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1431>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This documents changes that were introduced in Neos 2.0 with revision `75430099fe2dbd3646eb549dac5e9778abf4c82a <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/75430099fe2dbd3646eb549dac5e9778abf4c82a>`_.

`BUGFIX: Make layout sliding query match properly <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1422>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The page layout determination in `DefaultTypoScript.ts2` contains the query

`q(node).parents('[subpageLayout]').first().property('subpageLayout')`

However that immediately also matches nodes which have `subpageLayout` being an empty string, hence this being taken into account. This results in an empty value, even if there would be actual set layouts higher above.

The `.parents()` part need to be replaced with `.parents('[subpageLayout][subpageLayout != ""]')`

Fixes #1117

`TASK: Remove note about behavior in unsupported version 1.2 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1433>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Documentation adjustments <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1430>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a small example to the Eel Helpers Reference (Array.indexOf).
Adds an example on how to use the help messages inside properties (Property Editor Reference).

`TASK: Prefix \`uriPathSegment\` field inspector validator <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1428>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I changed the non prefixed `regularExpression`-validator to the correct `TYPO3.Neos/Validation/RegularExpressionValidator`-validator

**How to test**

You could easily try to change the `uriPathSegment` on every document node type.

`BUGFIX: Initialization of asset usage strategies <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1427>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a regression introduced in https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1323,
causing the asset usage strategies to never be initialized.

Closes #1425

`BUGFIX: Require ~4.0 of neos/form <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1424>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The 3.0 branch of neos/form is not compatible with the current codebase.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Adding media element to tag or asset collection <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1414>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adding a media asset to a tag or collection in the thumbnail in the media browser by dragging it fails.

Resolves #1413

* Packages: ``Browser``

`TASK: Remove deprecated getters for \`\`userWorkspace\`\` and name <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1393>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are fully replaced by
``\\Neos\\Neos\\Service\UserService::getPersonalWorkspace``
and
``\\Neos\\Neos\\Service\UserService::getPersonalWorkspaceName``

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Remove TYPO3 & TypoScript in the Fusion documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1418>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the [documentation](https://neos.readthedocs.io/en/stable/References/) are still some references to TYPO3 and TypoScript. This PR fix it for the fusion part

* Packages: ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Replace leftover occurrence of \`\`typoScriptRenderingPath\`\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1419>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Make fusion-parser aspectable <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1410>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The fusion parser cloned itself previously to handle includes but to keep the defined namespaces.
That made the use of aspects impossible since they were only applied on the initially created instance of the parser.

This change fixes this by using a new instance of the parser for each include and transfers the namespaces explicitly to the new parser.

`BUGFIX: Correctly require \`\`exec\`\` instead of \`\`system\`\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1415>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The documentation requested ``system`` to be enabled but in fact ``exec``
is used for proxy building in Flow.

Related: neos/flow-development-collection#634

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Use setFusionPathPattern() in HistoryController <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1411>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The view was updated to `FusionView`, but `setTypoScriptPathPattern` was still called.
I updated it to the correct method `setFusionPathPattern`.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: RemoveNodePrivilege blocks editing <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/341>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The RemoveNodePrivilege would block editing of nodes completely, since
the inspector would send all properties of a node, but the setter for
"removed" was blocked by the privilege.

Now the privilege only matches on setRemoved(true) and thus only blocks
what it should block.

Fixes #896 

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/3.0.0...3.1.0>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
