`3.2.2 (2017-12-15) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/3.2.2>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Avoid error if no dimension is set in DimensionsMenuImplementation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1777>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the DimensionsMenuImplementation without a set `dimension`
(yes, there are use cases for that, e.g. hreflang tags for language _and_
country), the following could happen:

    Call to a member function getLabel() on null

This change avoids that.

`TASK: Fix border-radius on button elements <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1799>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On Chrome (macOS), all `<button>` elements had a `border-radius` of `4px`, which is now removed.


`BUGFIX: Make sure nodes that are to be discarded are actually publishable <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1711>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`TYPO3\\Neos\\Service\\PublishingService` traverses all children of a node to discard that node recursively. Not all those nodes are actually publishable though, so the following batch discard operation fails with the Exception `#1395841899: Nodes in a in a workspace without a base workspace cannot be discarded`.

So, I added a filter to `TYPO3\\Neos\\Service\\PublishingService::discardNode` that removes all nodes from the to-be-discarded list, that are in a different workspace than the given node.

Resolves: #1710

`BUGFIX: Fix wrong TS path in extending pages example <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1754>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fix exception when following documentation about extending pages.

See detailed description and discussion on https://discuss.neos.io/t/1952

`BUGFIX: \`\`NodePropertyConverterService\`\` converts default values <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1782>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Apply property mapping to default value fallbacks in ``NodePropertyConverterService``

Resolves #1781

`TASK: Adjust Neos to work with PHP 7.2 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1789>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This enables PHP 7.2 testing on Travis CI, fixes a functional test that broke
and adjusts one actual code error.

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: CreateContentContextTrait should use the available SiteReposi… <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1779>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`TASK: Add generateUriPathSegments check identifier <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1778>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the `generateUriPathSegments` identifier to the `node:repair`
help text.

`TASK: Make FusionRuntime available to Form Renderers <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1765>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the `Neos.NodeTypes:Form` Fusion prototype to make
the current `Fusion\\Runtime` available to the Form renderer
via the forms rendering options.

Background:

This is especially useful for forms that are rendererd with
the `neos/form-fusionrenderer` which, otherwise, can't re-use
Fusion prototypes that are not explicitly loaded.

For forms rendered with the `neos/form-builder`, the runtime
is already set.

* Packages: ``Media`` ``NodeTypes``

`TASK: Fix remove a selectbox option from an existing Node Type documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1761>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Based on this post: https://discuss.neos.io/t/solved-remove-properties-from-nodetype-of-included-package/2751/6

`BUGFIX: Long string literals should be supported in Fusion <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1755>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The regex matcher would halt with a catastrophic backtracing error 
if a very long string was given as string literal.

`BUGFIX: Fix wrong target class in RouteCacheAspect <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1768>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes #1767 by changing the vendor name from TYPO3 to Neos in
the `RouteCacheAspect` in one place where it was obviously overlooked.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Support namespaces in fusion-dsls <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1753>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The declared Namespaces are now transferred to the parser that handles fusion-dsl's. Previously the returned dsl-code could not use namespaces. 

* Packages: ``Fusion``

`TASK: Add 2.3.17 changelog <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1749>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`BUGFIX: Assets used in moved nodes don't break media module asset view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1743>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prevent assets referenced in moved nodes from breaking the asset view in the media module.

Fixes #1742

`BUGFIX: Update publish button when copying page in node tree <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1740>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure the publish button is updated so the new changes can be published.
Additionally selects the newly copied page similar to when inserting a new document.

Resolves #914

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/3.2.1...3.2.2>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
