`3.3.0 (2017-12-19) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/3.3.0>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Require correct version of neos/flow-development-collection <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1812>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix Flow version constraint for dev collection <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1811>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Adjust the RouteCacheAspect to work with recent changes in Flow-routing <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1809>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This extracts the part of https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1769 that is needed for neos to work with the adjusted flow-routing.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Thumbnail generation is broken if quality is not set <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1798>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Remove tooltip in the document and context tree <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1774>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

null

* Packages: ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Allow configuring route after login to backend <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1794>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is to allow switching to the new UI seemlessly but
also allows to set a completely different module to be used
after login.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Exchange login wallpaper for version 3.3 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1792>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Exchanged the login wallpaper with the one for 3.3. Cause of the uniform white and blur areas, I was able to compress more pixels int the same file size.

`TASK: Image adjustment for image quality <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1788>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add adjustment for the image quality that can be used to override the global configuration.
Sometimes you might want to add a preview image with lower quality as a thumbnail, but you couldn't. I added the quality property to Neos:ImageUri to make this possible.

    previewImageUri = Neos.Neos:ImageUri {
        asset = ${q(node).property('image')}
        maximumWidth = 2560
        maximumHeight = 1280
        quality = 25
    }

Resolves #768

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Allow modification of uploaded assets based on node <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1728>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduces a signal `ContentController::assetUploaded` that
sends the currently selected `node` and the `siteNodeName`
along with the asset that's about to be persisted.

This allows the asset to be tagged or added to collections
based on the node type or path etc.

For example, the following slot would assign assets of an
`Employee` node type to the corresponding tag:

```php
public function theSlot(Asset $asset, NodeInterface $node, string $propertyName, string $siteNodeName)
{
    if (!$node->getNodeType()->isOfType('Some.Package:Employee') || $propertyName !== 'image') {
        return;
    }
    $tag = $this->tagRepository->findOneByLabel('Employee');
    if ($tag === null) {
        return;
    }
    $asset->addTag($tag);
}
```

Resolves: #893

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Allow to configure if processed images must be interlaced <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1780>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change adds a new setting in the Media package to enable image interlacing.

It's disabled by default, but you can change the setting to one of the values in
`Neos.Media.image.defaultOptions.interlace`:

- `%\\Imagine\\Image\\ImageInterface::INTERLACE_NONE%` (default)
- `%\\Imagine\\Image\\ImageInterface::INTERLACE_LINE%`
- `%\\Imagine\\Image\\ImageInterface::INTERLACE_PLANE%`
- `%\\Imagine\\Image\\ImageInterface::INTERLACE_PARTITION%`

* Packages: ``Media``

`FEATURE: Split useful NodeTypes into separate packages <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1659>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Move the more often used node type ContentReferences out of the NodeTypes package to allow separate usage without the more nasty parts of Neos.NodeTypes.

The Neos.NodeTypes package inherits Neos.NodeTypes:ContentReferences from Neos.NodeTypesContentReferences.:ContentReferences to provide backwards compability.

The Menu was renamed into Neos.NodeTypes.Navigation because Mac interprets ".Menu" folders as packages and I wanted to prevent any confusion.

The compromise is that we now have two NodeTypes with the same functionality (one of them abstract when the NodeTypes package is included). There should be a breaking change in Neos 4 to get rid of the old namespace.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`FEATURE: Upload/MediaBrowser flags in Image and Asset editor <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1727>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds two new feature flags, `upload` and `mediaBrowser` that
allow to hide respective buttons in the `Image` and `Asset`
editors.

Usage:

```yaml
'Some.Node:Type':
  properties:
    'someImageProperty':
      type: Neos\\Media\\Domain\\Model\\ImageInterface
      ui:
        inspector:
          editorOptions:
            features:
              # disable uploads through the editor directly
              upload: false
    'someAssetProperty':
      type: Neos\\Media\\Domain\\Model\\Asset
      ui:
        inspector:
          editorOptions:
            features:
              # allow assets only to be uploaded through the editor
              mediaBrowser: false
```

Background:

When uploading assets through the property editors, that happens
within the context of a selected node (unlike when it's added
through the media module). This allows us to assign the resulting
asset to a collection/tag based on the node type or path for
example.

Related: #893
Related: #1131

* Packages: ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Add fusion-prototypes \`Component\`, \`Editable\`, \`ContentComponent\` and \`Augmenter\`  <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1752>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The prototypes `Component`, `Editable`, `ContentComponent` and `Augmenter` are transfered from the package PackageFactory.AtomicFusion (https://github.com/PackageFactory/atomic-fusion) into the Neos-core.

- `Neos.Fusion:Component`: Create a component that adds all properties to the props context and afterward evaluates the renderer.
- `Neos.Neos:Editable`: Create an editable tag for a property. In the frontend, only the content of the property gets rendered.
- `Neos.Neos:ContentComponent`: Base type to render component based content nodes, extends `Neos.Fusion:Component`
- `Neos.Fusion:Augmenter`: Add html-attributes to renderer code as processor or as a standalone prototype.

In addition the class `\\Neos\\Neos\\Service\\HtmlAugmenter` was moved to `\\Neos\\Fusion\\Service\\HtmlAugmenter` with a deprecated backwards compatible layer.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`TASK: Use whole package key for generating site node name <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1758>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

Refactor the siteNodeName generation. It is now based on the complete package key.
Also i did some code cleanup.

**How to verify it**

Simple use the `./flow kickstart:site` command. You can verify the siteNodeName inside the generated `Resources/Private/Content/Sites.xml`

* Packages: ``SiteKickstarter``

`TASK: Streamline role selection for new user view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1744>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Streamlines the role selection layout for create new user view with
edit user account view.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Adds a hint that \`@context\` cant access context variables on the same level <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1733>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

see https://neos-project.slack.com/archives/C050C8FEK/p1509054474000170

* Packages: ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Asset Constraints <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1723>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This introduces the following Privileges:

* `ReadAssetPrivilege`
* `ReadTagPrivilege`
* `ReadAssetCollectionPrivilege`

see added documentation.

Note:
The code for this change has been taken from
https://github.com/bwaidelich/Wwwision.AssetConstraints

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Introduce command to remove unused assets <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1720>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This command iterates over all existing assets, checks their usage count
and lists the assets which are not reported as used by any AssetUsageStrategies.
The unused assets can than be removed.

### Example command output (with unused assets): 
```
Searching for unused assets:
 12/12 [============================] 100%
Found the following unused assets:
- 2a2952ce-ba38-45bc-9b88-03d013831fd6 (Bildschirmfoto 2016-11-01 um 14.14.15.png)
- 5279fcc0-4557-4033-be66-5fbe766aa2e2 (Bildschirmfoto 2016-11-01 um 14.11.43.png)
- 5890c270-9f35-4327-8876-46388403bacf (Bildschirmfoto 2016-11-01 um 14.14.57.png)
Do you want to remove 3 unused assets?y
 3/3 [============================] 100%
```

### Example command output (without unused assets):
```
./flow media:removeunused
Searching for unused assets:
 9/9 [============================] 100%
No unused assets found.
```

* Packages: ``Media``

`TASK: Replaced "wrong" quotation marks <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1716>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We have open/close quotation marks (””) in code examples so i replaced them with normal ("") quotation marks.

**What I did**
Replaced quotation marks

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Fix wrong comment <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1719>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Fusion``

`TASK: Make Fusion file inclusion docs more clear <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1671>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Based on input from Aftab, improved the clarity of this docs section.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Explain how to disable NodeTypes in documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1680>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds documentation about how to disable NodeTypes. This was discussed
in https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/1674

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/3.2.2...3.3.0>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
