`3.3.10 (2018-05-16) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/3.3.10>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Adjust test to change in Neos.Neos.Ui <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2056>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The UI package comes with a new image serializer that needs to be
configured so the test sees it's expected result.

This change depends on [`1b4562c8b71a595b48fec03fac9cd52b9f8c7a5e <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/1b4562c8b71a595b48fec03fac9cd52b9f8c7a5e>`_](https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/pull/1866/commits/`1b4562c8b71a595b48fec03fac9cd52b9f8c7a5e <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/1b4562c8b71a595b48fec03fac9cd52b9f8c7a5e>`_) in the
UI package.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Document usage of Security Context in Content Cache <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2033>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- [ x] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)

`TASK: Set default setting to enable the switch to old UI switch <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2026>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See discussion there for more details.

Related: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2021
https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/pull/1809

* Packages: ``Neos``

`DOCS: Disable editors <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2013>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This PR adds documentation regarding the ability to disable Editors, which is added in this PR:
https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/pull/1665

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Show content dimensions with asset usages <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2006>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes #2005

`BUGFIX: Exclude shadow nodes in findOneByIdentifier <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1987>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Added a filtering for `movedTo` like we already do in `filterNodeDataByBestMatchInContext`.

See description of the discovered behavior in https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/issues/1523#issuecomment-379247165.

Closes #1986

`BUGFIX: Dynamic cache entries should be evaluated via runtime <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1964>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dynamic cache entries are complex and need a lot of information
to be evaluated correctly, therefore the runtime should always take
care of this. This is potentially a bit slower than the original
code but definitely more correct in outcome. Before tags were
definitely wrong as they were based on the parent elements
configuration.

`BUGFIX: Avoid getPath() on null in LinkingService <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1984>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the context of the "resolved" node does not have a "current" site
in `LinkingService.createNodeUri()` a fatal error was triggered. This
adds a check and handles the case like a site node path mismatch.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Skip CSRF protection in logout action <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1981>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since we overwrite the `logoutAction` from Flow, we need to annotate it with `@Flow\\SkipCsrfProtection` here too.

see neos/flow-development-collection#1014

`TASK: Fix incorrect child node types in \`\`node:repair\`\` command <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1956>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When checking for missing child nodes it doesn't check if the existing child nodes are the correct node type. This can happen when a node has been changed to the fallback node type or if the child node type is changed in the configuration.

`BUGFIX: Typo in WorkspaceException #1395841899 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1968>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Duplicate "in a".

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/3.3.9...3.3.10>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
