`3.3.3 (2018-01-09) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/3.3.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX Inject missing ImageService into AssetService <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1834>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PR #1597 has introduced a missing service injection. 

The ImageService is used but never injected into AssetService.

See: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/blob/master/Neos.Media/Classes/Domain/Service/AssetService.php#L269

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Fix legacy mentions of TYPO3 in the documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1824>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes documentation examples.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Load thumbs in media browser asynchronous <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1825>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When you open the media module with a lot of high-res images while the thumbnails are not already generated and cached, loading can take a long time without noticable feedback.

The templates use a setting not available since the media browser was split into it's own package. Instead the setting needs to be read from the Media package.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`TASK: merge in labels from the new UI <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1829>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

We need to bring all UI labels in one place again to allow them to be translated.
After this PR is merged, there'll be a follow-up PR to update the labels used there.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: define missing schema for the creation dialog elements <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1827>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The creation dialog has been introduced in the new UI, for more details
see here: https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/issues/1469

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Initialize overrideConfiguration in Fusion <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1823>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Initialize ``overrideConfiguration`` as empty ``array`` so it's not ``null`` when passed to the form template.

* Packages: ``Form`` ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/3.3.2...3.3.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
