`3.3.5 (2018-02-23) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/3.3.5>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Enforce NodeTreePrivilege when filtering node tree <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1868>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the search field or node type filter in the node tree,
the NodeTreePrivilege policies aren't taken into account.

Resolves #1867

`BUGFIX: Fix asset references detection for nodes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1762>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This solves several issues with the implementation of asset usages

* Can be used without logged in user (CLI)
* Lists all references without resulting in errors
* Speed gain if the usages are not actually needed (eg. only counted).

Gives minimal information about "inaccessible" references for now.

Also resolves #1599

`DOCS: document creationDialog <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1892>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: #1469

* Packages: ``Neos``

`DOCS: document dynamic client-side configuration processing <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1891>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Documentation for https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/pull/1618

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix VH call quote escaping in RelatedAssets.html <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1893>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A call to a VH inside another VH call was not using correctly escaped
single quotes, breaking parsing.

`TASK: Enable i18n for node creation dialog <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1871>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the same time, the "Title" label for a new Document node is
added to the language files. The creationDialog configuration
for this node type is inside Neos.Neos.Ui.

Fixes: neos/neos-ui#1539

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Declare mixin node types as abstract <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1885>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The mixins in this package are not declared abstract. This leads to issues with
Elasticsearch indexing. Abstract node types are not mapped, but these mixins
are not abstract, thus they are mapped. Any mapping configuration that is
applied to `Neos.Neos:Node` must therefore also be applied to all mixins,
if any conflicts appear between fields (e.g. `_all`).

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/3.3.4...3.3.5>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
