`4.0.7 (2018-08-02) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/4.0.7>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

` BUGFIX: Add missing support for inline.editorOptions.placeholder i18n <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2125>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds the possibility to use i18n translation text at inline properties generated with the new inline.editorOptions property.

This is a follow on of #2120

`BUGFIX: Fix readonly asset source action buttons <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2119>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an issue with the action buttons shown in the list view
of the media browser. The buttons were not referenced correctly to
the respective line if the asset source was a read-only source, which
resulted in only one "view" button being shown for the whole list of
assets.

* Packages: ``BaseMixins`` ``Browser`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`TASK: Corrected description of the slice operation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2117>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves issue #1322

Corresponds to PR #2113, but for Neos 2.3

`TASK: Un-remove removed auto created child nodes in node repair <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1995>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When running the `createMissingChildNodes` in the `node:repair` command, check if a child node exists but has been removed, and if so un-remove it.

`TASK: Support --node-type for orphanRemoval in node:repair <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2053>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The oprhanRemoval in `node:repair` ignored the `--node-type` flag, leading
to confusion. This adds the needed code to use a given node type flag.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Change all uppercase TRUE and FALSE to lowercase in YAML <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2098>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This was a thing at some time I remember and I've found many leftover uppercase true and false.

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Change all uppercase TRUE and FALSE to lowercase in PHP <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2099>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This was a thing at some time I remember and I've found many leftover uppercase true and false.

related to #2098 

* Packages: ``ContentRepository``

`TASK: Change all uppercase TRUE and FALSE to lowercase in fusion <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2100>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This was a thing at some time I remember and I've found many leftover uppercase true and false.

related to #2098

* Packages: ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Adapt adjusted NodeTypes from UI-package <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2105>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As the UI package adjusted some NodeTypes and the old UI
is deprecated since 4.0 we can put this into the original
NodeType configuration

related: https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/pull/1925

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Remove lastModified as it is not used anywhere <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2106>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As @kitsunet figured out this property should be removed completely as it is not used in any way.

* Packages: ``Media``

`TASK: Enhance Code quality <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2102>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I enhanced code quality with stuff I noticed and grouped them by commit, should be pretty clear (:

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/4.0.6...4.0.7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
