`4.1.8 (2018-11-13) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/4.1.8>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Revert supertype behaviour change <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2265>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts #2217, since it is potentially breaking.

In #2147 this was fixed for master, and for lower branches it was once fixed in #2139 but reverted through #2145.

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Catch error XMLReader when opening XML in site:import <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2267>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds handling of XMLReaders open() returning false
during site import.

Fixes #2199

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Do not cache non-existing accounts <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2247>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When creating a new user and retrieving it within the same request from the user service will result in `null` even though, the user has been created successfully. This happens because of an error in the internal runtime cache. 

This regression was introduced in:
https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/`dce483f9b0d17e3478777270eadebebbaca0d2dd <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/dce483f9b0d17e3478777270eadebebbaca0d2dd>`_

Since this is broken in the most recent bugfix release, I would like to propose to merge this into 2.3. (which is otherwise only open for security fixes).

`BUGFIX: Allow pinnedDimension argument on itemLabel to be null <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2262>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a regression not caught by https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2092

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Limit image view in media browser to image  <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2257>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The image list view in the media browser list only image assets and
disable the rendering of the filter in the UI. So the asset type can
not changed in the image view.

Fixes: #2255 

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Set min-height to make errors visible <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2254>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Solves Issue #2237 

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Redirect through Neos.Ui package if it is installed <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2251>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The link to open a document node in edit view is not working with the React UI. This
change fixes that.

resolves #2081

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: NodeType->isOfType() respects explicitly removed supertypes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2217>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`NodeType->isOfType()` returned `true` if a node type inherited another node types inherited node type which was declared as `false` in the NodeTypes `superTypes`.

Check existence of node type in inheritance chain instead of recursing through super types.

* Packages: ``AssetList`` ``BaseMixins`` ``Browser`` ``ColumnLayouts`` ``ContentReferences`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Form`` ``Html`` ``Navigation`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`BUGFIX: Fix SCSS import for Fontawesome files <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2196>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an issue in Neos.scss which referred to wrong filenames
for importing Fontawesome styles.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/4.1.7...4.1.8>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
