`4.2.0 (2018-12-07) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/4.2.0>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Remove the feature list <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2306>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

According to neos/documentation#8, feature list was removed. A redirect
on RTD has been added.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Documentation tweaks <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2305>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This includes:

- TASK: Remove outdated toctree reverse setup
- TASK: Fix embedded rST markup in command controller
- TASK: Fix rST markup errors
- TASK: Remove user guide (is on neos.io now)

Resolves https://github.com/neos/documentation/issues/11

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Use nodeType instead of documentNodeType in history translations <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2297>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the history module, the translation uses the documents NodeType instead of the actually modified nodes NodeType.

Additionally,  the `linkedNode` and `user` templates get trimmed to prevent ugly spaces.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: fix generation of i18n lables for the creationDialog <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2164>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes support for I18n labels of `editorOptions` in the `creationDialog`.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Add a hint for the user to avoid errors with incomplete site imports <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2290>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds a little hint that avoids frequent errors with the site import command crashing due to a memory limit, and users being confused about a breaky-looking site.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Add a helpful hint about the parameter expected for site:prune <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2291>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this, a tiny hint will show up if the site who should be pruned is not found.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: media:removeunused only works with limit flag <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2289>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change fixes a regression introduced in `1804dc8e6edf79045fb318edf3e78c6e17232658 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/1804dc8e6edf79045fb318edf3e78c6e17232658>`_ where a new command line flag "--limit" was introduced. The command did not detect any unused assets unless the --limit flag was specified, because the iteration would stop right away.

* Packages: ``Media``

`TASK: Continue during create missing child nodes if none defined <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2286>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In `createChildNodesByNodeType` there is no need to iterate nodes of
types that have no child nodes defined in their type.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``ContentRepository``

`BUGFIX: Fix parameters of internal method call <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2285>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The method `repairShadowNodes` calls `fixShadowNodesInWorkspace`
in turn. The call passes the `$nodeType` parameter in place of the
`$dryRun`.

This changes fixes that and corrects the return type annotation of
`fixShadowNodesInWorkspace` as well.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Health status and proper exit code for node:repair <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2278>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is a backward compatible rework of the `node:repair` command.

This introduces a new `EventDispatchingNodeCommandControllerPluginInterface`
that can be implemented by NodeCommandControllerPlugins in order to
dispatch repair events instead of having to interact with the console
output directly.

The two provided core plugins now implement this interface and dispatch
corresponding events.

Background:  
This rework allows the Command Controller to control the execution of tasks
and the rendering of their output which allows for a more streamlined
console output and serves as a basis for further improvements (e.g. verbosity
flag).
This also fixes the exit code of the command, that is now 1 if one of them
commands triggered an error.

Resolves: #1988

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Change login wallpaper for V 4.2 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2280>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Photographer: Daniel Bischoff

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Extract the methods \`\`render\`\`, \`\`prepare\`\` and \`\`getProps\`\` from the \`\`evaluate\`\` method of the fusion ComponentImplementation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2277>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This allows external packages to override those methods with aspects which, in turn, allows to implement things like CSS modules and propTypes. The behavior of the fusion-component is not modified.

* Packages: ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`Replace a few occurrences of TYPO3 with Neos <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2273>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change replaces a few occurrences of "TYPO3" with "Neos",
mostly affecting code examples and documentation.

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Update FontAwesome Library from 5.2.0 to 5.5.0 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2261>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Revert supertype behaviour change <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2265>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reverts #2217, since it is potentially breaking.

In #2147 this was fixed for master, and for lower branches it was once fixed in #2139 but reverted through #2145.

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Remove usage of deprecated Flow Logger and use PSR logger <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2259>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Remove duplicated packageManager in WorkspacesController <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2268>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Catch error XMLReader when opening XML in site:import <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2267>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds handling of XMLReaders open() returning false
during site import.

Fixes #2199

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Apply fixes from StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2266>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pull request applies code style fixes from an analysis carried out by [StyleCI](https://github.styleci.io).

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Do not cache non-existing accounts <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2247>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When creating a new user and retrieving it within the same request from the user service will result in `null` even though, the user has been created successfully. This happens because of an error in the internal runtime cache. 

This regression was introduced in:
https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/`dce483f9b0d17e3478777270eadebebbaca0d2dd <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/dce483f9b0d17e3478777270eadebebbaca0d2dd>`_

Since this is broken in the most recent bugfix release, I would like to propose to merge this into 2.3. (which is otherwise only open for security fixes).

`BUGFIX: Allow pinnedDimension argument on itemLabel to be null <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2262>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes a regression not caught by https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2092

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Return copyright in imageVariant <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2260>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Limit image view in media browser to image  <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2257>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The image list view in the media browser list only image assets and
disable the rendering of the filter in the UI. So the asset type can
not changed in the image view.

Fixes: #2255 

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Set min-height to make errors visible <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2254>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Solves Issue #2237 

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Adjust XSD domain to neos.io <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1860>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Set the correct XSD domain in the documentation.

Resolves: #1859

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Replace legacy logger with psrLogger in media <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2239>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Media``

`TASK: Redirect through Neos.Ui package if it is installed <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2251>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The link to open a document node in edit view is not working with the React UI. This
change fixes that.

resolves #2081

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Refactor instances of logger to psrLogger <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2244>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Refactor usages of the deprecated systemLogger to
the PSR system logger.
Fix some code style issues along the way.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Redirect through Neos.Ui package if it is installed <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2245>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The link to open a document node in edit view is not working with the React UI. This
change fixes that.

resolves #2081

* Packages: ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Add Fusion prototypes \`Join\`, \`Loop\`, \`Map\`, \`Reduce\` and \`DataStructure\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2189>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The difference between ``RawArray``, ``Array``, ``RawCollection`` and ``Collection`` was often hard to get for new developers. To overcome this, the old confusing names are deprecated, and new prototypes are introduced which are easier to understand and emphasize the declarative nature of Fusion.

``Neos.Fusion:Join``

The prototype concatenates the fusion values of all fusion-properties and returns the result as a string. This prototype replaces ``Neos.Fusion:Array`` which is deprecated.

In addition to the behavior of the ``Array`` ``Join`` allows to define the ``@glue`` used for concatenating the parts.

``Neos.Fusion:Loop``

The ``Loop`` prototype iterates over the given items with the itemRenderer and returns the concatenated result as a string. The prototype replaces ``Neos.Fusion:Collection`` which is deprecated.

Other than in ``Collection`` the items are passed with the key ``items`` instead of ``collection``.

In addition to the behavior of the classic ``Collection`` ``Loop ``  allows defining the ``@glue`` used for concatenating the items. 

``Neos.Fusion:DataStructure``

The ``DataStructure`` prototype returns an associative array with all fusion keys evaluated. The prototype replaces ``Neos.Fusion:RawArray`` which is deprecated.

``Neos.Fusion:Map``

The ``Map`` iterates over the given ``items`` and returns the result as an array.  The prototype replaces ``Neos.Fusion:RawCollection`` which is deprecated.

Other than ``RawCollection`` the items are passed with the key ``items`` instead of ``collection`` and the keys of the given ``items`` are preserved.

``Neos.Fusion:Reduce``

The `Neos.Fusion:Reduce` prototype is added which reduces the given items to a single value by using ``itemRenderer`` with the following properties.

- `items` (array/Iterable, **required**) The array or iterable to iterate over
- `itemName`: (string, defaults to `item`) Context variable name for each item
- `itemKey`: (string, defaults to `itemKey`) Context variable name for each item key, when working with an array
- `carryName`: (string, defaults to `carry`) Context variable that contains the result of the last iteration
- `iterationName`: (string, defaults to `iterator`) A context variable with iteration information will be available under the given name: ``index`` (zero-based), ``cycle`` (1-based), ``isFirst``, ``isLast``
- `itemReducer`: (mixed, **required**) The reducer definition (simple value, expression or object) that will be applied for every item.
- `initialValue`: (mixed, defaults to `null`) The value that is passed to the first iteration or returned if the items are empty

* Packages: ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Apply fixes from StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2249>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pull request applies code style fixes from an analysis carried out by [StyleCI](https://github.styleci.io).

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`Apply fixes from StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2248>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pull request applies code style fixes from an analysis carried out by [StyleCI](https://github.styleci.io).

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Allow deletion of users from edit view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2228>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The user list already allows deleting users, and so does the detail
view (show action). With this change, admins can delete users also
from the *edit* form.
* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Extend the asset model by a copyright notice <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2240>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This extends the asset model by a `copyrightNotice` field.
This field is automatically populated from the `copyrightNotice` IPTC
property when an asset is imported from an asset source.

Resolves: #2064 

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Asset Sources support for Asset Editor <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2200>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change introduces the necessary backend code for enabling the Asset Editor (in the user interface's inspector panel) to use asset sources. A user can now search for assets which are stored in asset sources and import them on the fly.

Resolves #2198 

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Media`` ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Add \`\`@apply\`\` meta-keyword to the Fusion-language <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2192>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``@apply`` allows overriding multiple properties of a fusion-prototype with a single expression. This is useful when complex data structures are mapped to fusion prototypes.

The example shows the rendering of a ``teaserList``-array by using a Teaser-Component and passing all keys from each teaser to the fusion Object.

```
teasers = Neos.Fusion:Collection {
	collection = ${teaserList}
	itemName = 'teaser'
	itemRenderer = Vendor.Site:Teaser {
		@apply.teasers = ${teaser}
	}
}
```

The code avoids passing down each fusion-property explicitly to the child component. A similar concept with a different syntax from the JavaScript world is known as ES6-Spreads.

Another use-case is to use ``Neos.Fusion:Renderer`` to render a prototype while type and properties are based on data from the context.

```
example = Neos.Fusion:Renderer {
	type = ${data.type}
	element.@apply.properties = ${data.properties}
}
```

That way some meta-programming can use in fusion and both prototype and properties are decided late in the rendering by the fusion runtime.

The keys below ``@apply`` are evaluated before the fusion-object and the ``@context`` and are initialized. Each key below ``@apply`` must return a key-value map (values other than an array it is ignored). During the evaluation of each fusion-path, the values from ``@apply`` are always checked first.

If a property is defined via ``@apply`` this value is returned without evaluating the `fusionPath`.

The ``@process`` and ``@if``-rules of the original fusion-key are still applied even if a value from ``@apply`` is returned.

Since ``@apply`` is evaluated first the overwritten values are already present during the evaluation of ``@context`` and will overlay the properties of ``this`` if they are accessed.

``@apply`` supports the same extended syntax and ordering as fusion processors and supports multiple keys. The evaluation order is defined via ``@position``, the keys that are evaluated last will override previously defined keys. This is also similar to the rules for ``@process``.

```
test = Vendor.Site:Prototype {
	@apply.contextValue {
		@position = 'start'
		expression = ${ arrayValueFromContext }
	}
	@apply.fusionObject {
		@position = 'end'
		expression = Neos.Fusion:RawArray {
			value = "altered value"
		}
	}
}
```

Other than ``@context`` ``@apply`` is only valid for a single fusion path, so when subpaths or children are rendered they are not affected by the parents ``@apply`` unless they are explicitly passed down.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: NodeType->isOfType() respects explicitly removed supertypes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2217>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`NodeType->isOfType()` returned `true` if a node type inherited another node types inherited node type which was declared as `false` in the NodeTypes `superTypes`.

Check existence of node type in inheritance chain instead of recursing through super types.

* Packages: ``AssetList`` ``BaseMixins`` ``Browser`` ``ColumnLayouts`` ``ContentReferences`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Form`` ``Html`` ``Navigation`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`BUGFIX: Fix SCSS import for Fontawesome files <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2196>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an issue in Neos.scss which referred to wrong filenames
for importing Fontawesome styles.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix SCSS import for Fontawesome files <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2195>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes an issue in Neos.scss which referred to wrong filenames
for importing Fontawesome styles.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: FileTypeIconViewHelper should work with new $asset argument <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2191>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the newly added `$asset` argument is used, it's ignored and overridden to the deprecated `$file` argument.

Resolves #2186

* Packages: ``AssetList`` ``BaseMixins`` ``Browser`` ``ColumnLayouts`` ``ContentReferences`` ``Form`` ``Html`` ``Media`` ``Navigation`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`BUGFIX: Fix typo in cache documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2194>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
Fixed a small typo in the caching documentation.

**How I did it**

**How to verify it**

**Checklist**

- [X] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [X] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [X] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)

* Packages: ``AssetList`` ``BaseMixins`` ``Browser`` ``ColumnLayouts`` ``ContentReferences`` ``Form`` ``Html`` ``Navigation`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`TASK: Moved editor documentation to neos.io <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2112>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See also https://discuss.neos.io/t/refactoring-the-neos-user-guide/3256

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix condensed layout in Media Browser <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2181>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
Fixed the condensed layout of the media browser added when having more than 25 tags.

Regression of #1745

**How to verify it**
Have more than 25 tags or add the class `neos-media-aside-condensed` to the div with the class `neos-media-content`.

* Packages: ``Browser``

`BUGFIX: Avoid fatal error when asset not available <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2177>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes what is basically a merge error. It lead to a method call
on an unset variable.

* Packages: ``Browser``

`BUGFIX: Use the possible new node name to check it's existance in the move to location <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2161>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The NodeExistsException was thrown even if the new nodeName does not exist in the new location, because only the old nodeName was checked.

Affected Versions: 3.3+ (I did not check the previous versions because it's not security critical)

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Add missing Layout to access mediabrowser from inspector <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2171>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fix a regressing introduced by https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/1745

Fixes: #2170

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/4.1.0...4.2.0>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
