`4.3.1 (2019-05-06) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/4.3.1>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`TASK: Correct syntax <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2476>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix \`parents\` flowQuery operation accidentally returning the \`/sites\` and \`/\` node <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2464>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The test that should verify this behavior failed to mock the root and sites node and thus the exclusion of `/sites` was not verified correctly.

Resolves: #2459

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Filtering by nodeType that has subtypes causes a php_error <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2461>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When calculating constraints for nodeType filter the nodeDataRepository currently puts the nodeType that was given as filter-argument directly as string to the returned constraint-object but all superTypes as NodeType-objects. This later causes trouble once the types are passed to the isOfType method that expects (but not enforces) strings.

The problem exists since ages but is exposed in Neos 4.2 by the altered handling of removed NodeTypes. Before that `isOfType` implicitly accepted a NodeType as argument. The added checks for declaredSuperTypes that are null (removed by subtype) broke this implication.

Resolves: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/2460

* Packages: ``ContentRepository``

`BUGFIX: Fix return type annotation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2456>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The return type annotation for ``getParent()`` was wrong

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`Apply fixes from StyleCI <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2454>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This pull request applies code style fixes from an analysis carried out by [StyleCI](https://github.styleci.io).

---

For more information, click [here](https://github.styleci.io/analyses/q5w93B).

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`DOCS: Fix code blocks <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2455>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Update release notes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2451>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Use correct Flow version within 4.3 dev collection <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2452>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`TASK: Contain dimension changes in tests to test case only <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2427>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The reset to empty array was technically wrong because dimensions were
configured. While this is not an issue at this time, it can be one
when other tests rely on the integrity of configured dimensions and
the repository.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Allow translation of the textareaeditor placeholder <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2404>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This additionally requires a fix in the ui which will be done in the neos-ui package.

**What I did**

Add the textarea editor for configuration enrichment.

**How to verify it**

When using i18n in the placeholder it should show the full translation path in the textarea editor instead of just i18n.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: No redirect with status 201 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2415>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sending a redirect code of 201 does not cause the browser to redirect
and leads to a blank page.

Fixes: #2414

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Translate Site Management <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2397>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Site Management uses labels both from `Main.xlf` and `Modules.xlf`. For the labels from `Module.xlf`, the `source` attribute must be set. Apart from that, some labels didn't have a translation at all. This change makes the Site Management fully localizable.

Fixes #2394 

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Forward \`removedContentShown\` in Context->getNodeByIdentifier() <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2293>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

fixes #2292 

* Packages: ``ContentRepository``

`BUGFIX: Testing Policy has a working expression <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2391>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The policy expression was wrong and leads to initialize*Action functions being included in the AllControllerActions privilege. That is wrong and can lead to errors in tests. Compared to the (non testing) policy the new expression now works as expected.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/4.3.0...4.3.1>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
