`4.3.5 (2019-09-24) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/4.3.5>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Remove Connection::PARAM_STR_ARRAY hint <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2709>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This "fixes" https://github.com/doctrine/orm/issues/7827, by
actually passing the correct type as parameter. And the "type
hint" can be removed, as well.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: CropIimageAdjustment::refit only produces int sizes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2702>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is not a direct problem for Neos 3.3 but it becomes a problem
as soon as PHP type hints come into play. The ratio divided widths
and heights can easily be floats and that is unexpected. Therefore
rounding and casting to int makes sense to prevent problems.

In versions of Neos that include type hints this is an actual major
bug that prevents refitting to work.

* Packages: ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Avoid count() call on null <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2700>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes #2699

* Packages: ``Diff``

`BUGFIX: Translate labels when modifying tag and collections <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2691>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

Allow all media browser controllers to use the modified `addFlashMessage` method.

**How I did it**

Use a trait for adding the method to all related controllers.

**How to verify it**

Add or delete a tag or collection in the media browser.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Site imports with cropped images <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2679>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Aspect ratio is stored as a string and there's no TypeConverter
available to reconstruct the AspectRatio object from a string

Fixes #2538

Replaces https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2598

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Media``

`BUGFIX: HTML augmenter preserves multibyte characters in attributes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2675>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The html augmenter uses the `loadHml` method of php which assumes the html content being iso encoded. This caused attributes with umlauts being broken once on the outermost tag. The previous declaration of the `UTF-8` charset has no effect on the `loadHtml` behavior.

The change applies the mb_convert_encoding method to the html which allows to properly read unicode characters as suggested on  https://www.php.net/manual/en/domdocument.loadhtml.php

In addition this change adds a duck-emoji to the neos test codebase which is an important improvement.

Fixes: #2677

* Packages: ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/4.3.4...4.3.5>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
