`4.3.9 (2020-01-14) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/4.3.9>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Fix login behind basic auth <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2857>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the latest version of Chrome (79.0.3945.88) the login page will
remain white if it's protected by Basic Authentication.

Until now a 401 status code was returned whenever the login page was
opened, causing a faulty behavior in Chrome and resulting in a white
page in almost all cases.

We now use a custom header instead to identify if Authentication is
necessary to view the content.

resolves: https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/2845

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Hide inaccessible backend modules <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2855>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adds a ViewHelper `ifModuleAccessible` that allows to evaluate whether a
given (sub) module is accessible to the currently authenticated user and
uses that ViewHelper in the SubmoduleOverview partial in order to hide
inaccessible modules from the module overview.

Background:

With #964 the `module.<submodule>.privilegeTarget` configuration became
deprecated in favor of `ModulePrivilege`s but the partial only checked
the "privilegeTarget" configuration.

Note: This is just a quick fix for the bug. In the long run we should
rewrite the whole backend module logic in order to move such crucial
conditions from the view to the domain layer.

Fixes: #2854

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Call getPersonalWorkspaceName just once <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2852>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Use result of first call of getPersonalWorkspaceName() instead of calling it twice.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Avoid isRemoved() call on null <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2843>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The array returned by getNodes() may have null entries, e.g. if a
node was filtered in createFromNodeData().

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: #2664 set position to PHP_INT_MAX if nodeDimensionValue is no… <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2736>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fix returning invalid nodes in reduceNodeVariantsByWorkspacesAndDimensions. See #2664 for further details.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/4.3.8...4.3.9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
