`5.0.10 (2020-03-29) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/5.0.10>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Use Neos config when overriding FrontendRoutePartHandler <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2949>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When overriding the FrontendRouterPartHandler with a custom implementation but inheriting from it the configuration was not read from Neos.Neos but from the package that did the override.
This causes the setting to always be false and makes the routing not work properly when
having empty segments for dimensions. This is then quite difficult to debug.

Custom implementations can still decide to override the config and read it from somewhere else if required.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: fix isDescendantNodeOf permission with UUIDs if specified node is hidden <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2866>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves: #2865

* Packages: ``AssetList`` ``Browser`` ``ContentReferences`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Form`` ``Navigation`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Don’t use technical workspace name in the UI <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2920>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The technical name as title can be confusing as it doesn’t 
change when the workspace title is changed.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Have NeosAssetProxy return resource on getImportStream <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2922>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `AssetProxyInterface` declares `getImportStream()` must return
`resource`. The `NeosAssetProxy` returns `?UriInterface` there, which
breaks the contract.

In some places `getImportStream()` is used to access the original URI
(see #2190), but for other proxies, the resulting link target is
`Resource id #x` since the resource is cast to string and used as is.

This fixes the issue by making `getImportStream()` in `NeosAssetProxy`
return `resource` as expected and add (back) `getOriginalUri()` to the
proxy. The URI can be used for a download.

An additional `ProvidesOriginalUriInterface` is added, which can be
implemented by asset sources at will.

Fixes #2918

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/5.0.9...5.0.10>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
