`5.0.3 (2019-10-25) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/5.0.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Adjust wrong parameters for log call <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2749>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is probably an oversight during upmerges, the `log(…)` call expects
the level as first parameter. By now this should be a `warning(…)` call.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Media`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix setup signature <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2748>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Add type="text" to title input field <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2747>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Even though the input field is read-only, the type should be given. At least
that makes sure the styling is correct.

* Packages: ``Browser``

`TASK: Fix return value of getArguments() to be array <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2733>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Fusion``

`BUGFIX: Call PSR logger with warning directly <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2746>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes: #2744

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Always select local original asset in media browser <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2743>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Only query for imported assets that are not a variant of an originally imported asset.

Fixes #2742

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Media``

`TASK: Make countAll() in AssetRepository work as expected for subclasses <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2725>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Any repository extending AssetRepository would need to override the
countAll() method or would always return the count of all assets,
not only the type the repository dealt with.

Now countAll() counts all assets or the specific type as expected.

Fixes #2724

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`!!!TASK: Fix getVariant() return type <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2717>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is one way to solve the shortcoming of #2701 - or we leave out the
return type in the interface and implementations can specify their
concrete return type.

* Packages: ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Remove introduced integer type setting <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2712>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduced in https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2694

A property with a given name should not be defined as different
value types as this will fail as soon as you try to use
elasticsearch indexing.

With defining that in the Testing index, an elasticsearch mapping
in the tests cannot be build

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/5.0.2...5.0.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
