`5.0.4 (2019-11-06) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/5.0.4>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Change aloha.placeholder labels to new editorOptions <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2761>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This changs the language label ids for the placeholders of the base mixins.

* Packages: ``BaseMixins`` ``NodeTypes``

`TASK: Update showInvisible check to be upwards compatible <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2766>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Uses `$this->request` instead of the http request, to stay upwards compatible with PSR-7 changes.

Related: #2711 

* Packages: ``BaseMixins`` ``Neos``

`TASK : Remove composer requirement for the BaseMixins package itself <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2760>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The BaseMixin package lists itself as a dependency. This obviously doesn't make any sense (unless there is a very specific reason for this that I'm not aware of).

* Packages: ``BaseMixins`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Allow preview of invisible nodes in live <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2711>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When opening the preview for a hidden page using the React UI a
validation error shows up instead of handling the error or showing
the preview.

This changes fixes that by

- https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/pull/2557
- and changing Neos to allow invisible nodes to be shown for
  requests that are granted `Neos.Neos:Backend.GeneralAccess`

See https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/issues/2500

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Asset variant tweaks <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2716>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This PR

- cleans up code, applies (strict) typing
- allows numbers and dash in adjustment and variant identifiers
- tweaks value object README a bit

* Packages: ``Media``

`DOCS: Use working examples in VariantPresets documentation and mention the variants tab settings <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2755>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The previous examples were misleading and not helpful since they caused php-errors when used
as mentioned. The adjustments correct this and add a sentence and example about the VariantsTab that has to be enabled.

* Packages: ``Media``

`TASK: Add quiet flag to all Neos.Media CLI commands <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2722>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This unifies the CLI interface and makes the quiet flag available
consistently with all media commands.

* Packages: ``Media`` ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/5.0.3...5.0.4>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
