`5.1.0 (2019-12-14) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/5.1.0>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Improve CreationDialogPostprocessor <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2832>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Improves the `CreationDialogPostprocessor` so that it...

* does not access the `NodeType::getConfiguration()` but acts
  solely on the passed in `$configuration` array
* works for properties without `ui.inspector` configuration (for
  example inline editable properties)

Related: #2173

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Don't show empty Creation Dialog <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2830>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes the `CreationDialogPostprocessor` so that it doesn't create
an empty `ui.creationDialog.elements` configuration if no node
properties are flagged with `showInCreationDialog`

Related: #2173

* Packages: ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Add new wallaper for Neos 5.1 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2827>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Resolves #2824 

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Make adjustments to the latest ES CR version <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2828>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This adds support for explicit OriginDimensionSpacePoints as well as utility methods

* Packages: ``ContentRepository``

`TASK: Require concrete versions of fusion afx and forms for the 5.1 branch <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2826>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Until the both packages will become part of the dev dist we have to set the version constraints for each branch manually as master requires „*“

* Packages: ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Render headerComment from Settings instead of fluid-template <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2810>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This avoids needlessly instantiating the fluid template engine just to render single comment.
Additionally this allows to configure the licenseHeader via setting Neos.Neos.headerComment.

Resolves: #2812

* Packages: ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Refactor login rendering to Fusion <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2808>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This will also get rid of the following assets in the login screen

* The Google font api inclusion.
* Fontawesome icons
* jQuery and Bootstrap JS
* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Fusion performance optimization (get configuration) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2734>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

* Refactored the configuration processing in `Runtime` to a separate `RuntimeConfiguration` class for easier testing and separation of concerns
* Optimized getting the configuration for a Fusion path, since this is a very "hot" part of the code that is used for every evaluation

**How I did it**

* Measured and verified performance boost with a large production Neos project
* Performance boost might only be measurable if a lot of Fusion is evaluated (against the total overhead)

**How to verify it**

* See new unit test

**Checklist**

- [x] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [x] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [x] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)

Resolves: #2796

* Packages: ``Fusion``

`FEATURE: Batch rendering of asset variants <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2751>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This provides the following functionality:

- (re-)render variants based on presets
- re-render variants when replacing an asset resource

## Configuration

The feature comes with no configurable settings itself. But you will need to configure asset
variant presets. Here is an example for a square preset:

```yaml
Neos:
  Media:
    variantPresets:
      'AcmeCom:Square':
        label: 'AcmeCom Square Preset'
        mediaTypePatterns: ['~image/.*~']
        variants:
          'square':
            label: 'Square'
            adjustments:
              'crop':
                type: 'Neos\\Media\\Domain\\Model\\Adjustment\\CropImageAdjustment'
                options:
                  aspectRatio: '1:1'
```

See the variant presets documentation at https://neos-media.readthedocs.io/en/stable/VariantPresets.html for details.

## Usage

Simply run the command: `./flow media:rendervariants` to generate all missing variants for
configured presets. The option `--recreate` will also render existing variants again based
on their presets. Using `--limit` you can only generate an sepcified amount of variants.

Resolves: #2798

`FEATURE: add index to column path on nodedata table <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2685>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This allows for faster results in case of prefixed path queries on the nodedata table. The
index speeds up queries like in `findNodesByPathPrefixAndRelatedEntities()` (used to
determine the asset usage.)

Resolves: #2684

* Packages: ``ContentRepository``

`FEATURE: \`DataStructure\` assumes nesting for subkeys without specified type <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2729>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When a `DataStructure` is rendered for nested keys that have no specified type the fusion  type `DataStructure` is assumed. This makes it much easier to describe larger data structure in fusion for instance to create json ld structures or define complex mappings.

* Packages: ``Fusion``

`FEATURE: Custom Route for node preview <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2654>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduces a new Route `/neos/preview` that will be used for previewing/editing purposes in the content iFrame and to preview content that is not live or visible (yet).

## Advantages

### Greatly reduced amount of routing cache entries

Previously, URLs for nodes in the backend had the format `<the/node/url/path>@<workspace-name>;<dimensions>`
Thus leading to two routing cache entries (match & resolve) for each user, node & dimension combination.
With this change, there is only *one route* for those cases usinq query parameters to specify the node & context: `/neos/preview?node=<the/node/url/path>@<workspace-name>;<dimensions>`

### Explicit preview action

With a custom action just for the preview scenario, we can remove a lot of special magic (like displaying hidden nodes, shortcut handling, ...) from the regular frontend rendering path

### Faster backend navigation

Previously all links in the Backend triggered a `redirect` route, effectively resulting in two requests.

### Basis for further improvements and simplifications

With a different route (and action) we could greatly simplify the code of the `FrontendRoutePartHandler` and make way for new features like partial matching (#780), multi-format-support (#870) dedicated workspace previews, ...

*Note:* This requires https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/pull/2604 to work as expected

Resolves: #2653

`FEATURE: Replace configuration tree <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2789>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
The configuration module used dynatree and some other javascript stuff.
This PR adjusts the CSS and removes the old related Javascript.

As replacement we use vanilla JS to rebuild the tree feature.
AS we save states in the local storage I also refactored the handling in the menu and extracted the 
storage handling to an own service.

So the menu need also to be tested again.

**How to verify it**
Just use the configuration module.

Resolves: #2797

* Packages: ``BaseMixins`` ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Allow Node properties to appear in the Creation Dialog <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2785>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduces a new Node Type setting `properties.<propertyName>.ui.showInCreationDialog`
that, if `true` will add the corresponding property to the Node Creation Dialog.

Example:

    'Some.Package:SomeNodeType':
      # ...
      properties:
        'someProperty':
          ui:
            showInCreationDialog: true

In that case the configuration of the corresponding `ui.inspector.editor` is copied
to the corresponding Creation Dialog element and can be overridden using the already
existing `creationDialog` configuration::

    'Some.Package:SomeNodeType':
      creationDialog:
        elements:
          'someProperty':
            ui:
              label: 'Overridden label'
      properties:
        'someProperty':
          ui:
            showInCreationDialog: true

*Note:* This requires https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/pull/2596 to be merged first!

Related: #2173

* Packages: ``Neos``

`FEATURE: Increasing the contrast in module tables <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2784>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
Adjusted the SCSS of the backend module table to the suggested values of @creative-resort 
to higher the contrast and make it better readable.

**How to verify it**
Just open the package management in the backend.

Thanks to @creative-resort for the suggestion!

Resolves: #2782

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Replace $this->systemLogger by $this->logger in LoginController <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2769>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**
Replaced the old systemLogger by logger in LoginController in Neos.Neos.
**How I did it**
See code changes.
**How to verify it**
Run tests.
**Checklist**

- [x] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [x] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [x] The PR is created against the [lowest maintained branch](https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html)

* Packages: ``AssetList`` ``BaseMixins`` ``ColumnLayouts`` ``ContentReferences`` ``Form`` ``Html`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`TASK: Fusion performance optimizations (less calls) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2737>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**What I did**

* Fusion performance optimizations for less function calls and faster code paths for expression and value evaluation

**How I did it**

* Inlined some functions
* Removed usage of `end()` to get last item in array (needs a micro benchmark)
* Introduced fast checks around apply, if and processors
* Implemented fast path for expressions and values

**How to verify it**

* Less function calls, smaller call stack
* Needs a benchmark to measure micro optimizations

* Packages: ``Fusion``

`TASK: Use RuntimeFactory to create FusionRuntime <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2721>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This allows to use `FusionView` without manually creating a `ControllerContext`, because `RuntimeFactory` will take an effort to create one itself, if none is provided.

* Packages: ``Fusion``

`TASK: Code cleanup in Neos.Media repositories <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2723>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Media`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Mention the basic development setup steps in the readme <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2726>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This should help people onboard for contribution, as it is not obvious that one has to install the development-distribution and the information for that is not that easy to find and then very elaborate. This is the perfect place to have it in a TL;DR style

`FEATURE: Add \`Neos.Fusion:Fragment\` prototype <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2728>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A `Fragment` is a `Component` that renders the given `content` without additional markup.
That way conditions can be defined for bigger chunks of afx instead of single tags.

```
renderer = afx`
    <Neos.Fusion:Fragment @if.isEnabled={props.enable}>
        <h1>Example</h1>
        <h2>Content</h2>
    </Neos.Fusion:Fragment>
`
```

* Packages: ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: PaginateViewHelper in CR calls method on string <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2706>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes #2705

* Packages: ``ContentRepository`` ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/5.0.5...5.1.0>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
