`5.3.3 (2021-05-02) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/5.3.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: getAssetProxy failed for local assets <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/2924>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With `836d739fa4f92b3c87c0fcaccd54f2909e188773 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/836d739fa4f92b3c87c0fcaccd54f2909e188773>`_ a condition was added that prevented getting an AssetProxy for assets in the Neos AssetSource. But they all have one and therefore the query for an imported AssetProxy is not skipped for local assets.

**What I did**

Return AssetProxy for local assets.

**How I did it**

Check if the AssetSource is Neos itself.

**How to verify it**

Added functional test

* Packages: ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Use "stable" identifier when auto-creating child nodes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3336>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since ``node:repair`` uses the ``buildAutoCreatedChildNodeIdentifier``, it would
best to ensure the ``identifier`` is already correct when auto-creating child nodes.

Otherwise the identifier will be changed to a so called "stable"
identifier during a ``node:repair`` run which can lead to unwanted
behaviour in certain applications.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``ContentRepository``

`TASK: Relax version constraint and allow Neos.Fusion.Form 2.0 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3324>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Starting with Neos 5.2 the Neos Package required Neos.Fusion.Form `^1.0` instead of `*` which will not allow to use version 2.0+ of said package.

This change adjusts the constraint to `^1.0 || ^2.0` to allow projects to benefit from the Fusion.Form Runtime. 

~~Hint: When upmerged to master constraint should be adjusted to `^2.0`. If this is forgotten i will take care in a second pr.~~

Relates: https://github.com/neos/fusion-form/issues/42

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Open delete dialog on edit user view <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3316>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

On the edit view of the user management module it was not possible to delete the user caused by the missing confirmation dialog. This has not been open caused by a wrong if condition.

* Fixes: `#3310 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3310>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Mark migrations as applied after behat setup <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3314>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This should work around an edge-case regression in doctrine/migrations 3.1.1 - see https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3311#issuecomment-803560353

* Packages: ``github`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Re-Enable formerly unsupported editors for NodeCreationDialog <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3270>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hi there,

this PR accompanies https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/pull/2870 and re-enables editor functionalities that were disabled in https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/`029572e38c163a5475c0ed3a8a29a988a60e4f4c <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/029572e38c163a5475c0ed3a8a29a988a60e4f4c>`_#diff-`5dcd744af0bf44e044a96b272818323abc9ed49d <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/5dcd744af0bf44e044a96b272818323abc9ed49d>`_284f5e40ff33f62b440ff801R91 ff. due to a lack of support for secondary editor views in the NodeCreationDialog.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Adjust user menu dropdown width <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3298>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Limit the minimum width of the dropdown to the width of the trigger button
and make it possible to become wider and float from right side of the trigger button to the left.

* Fixes: `#3297 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3297>`_
* Packages: ``github`` ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Adjust logout button style <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3299>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Remove border from logout button in the user menu ot the top nav.

* Fixes: `#3296 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3296>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Add GH action for builds <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3291>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2390 and https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/pull/2273

Resolves neos/team#54

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix cache identifier collision in \`Neos_Fusion_ObjectTree\` cache. <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3289>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `Neos_Fusion_ObjectTree` cache is used to store parsed fusion ASTs, the identifier is calculated from the configured fusionPathPatterns. Previously the string `@package` was replaced at runtime and thus became not part of the cache identifier calculation. That way two packages using the same fusionPathPatterns would end up with the same cacheIdentifier.

This change extracts the replacement of the `@package` into a separate method that is called from the CachingAspect.
That way if the package key is used in the current path pattern it becomes part of the cache identifier.

* Resolves: `#3288 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3288>`_
* Packages: ``Fusion`` ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/5.3.2...5.3.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
