`7.0.1 (2021-02-23) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/7.0.1>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGIX: Fix drag-n-drop upload of assets in media browser <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3286>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This fixes parsing of the Fluid template on PHP 7.3+ so the upload
URL is correctly set.

* Fixes: `#2906 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/2906>`_
* Fixes: `#3096 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3096>`_

* Packages: ``BaseMixins`` ``Browser`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`BUGFIX: Allow Neos.Media package to be installed without Neos <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3268>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Moves the `Neos.Neos` reference from the `Neos.Media` routing configuration
to the Neos package.

**NOTE:** This removes the `Neos.Media` route positioning, so that it depends solely on the package
loading order.

To set the position explicitly, this configuration can be overridden with a few lines of `Settings.yaml`, for example:

```yaml
Neos:
  Flow:
    mvc:
      routes:
        'Neos.Media':
          position: 'after Some.Package'
```

* Fixes: `#3258 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3258>`_
* Packages: ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Prevent exception when shortcut nodes can't be resolved <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3269>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusts the `FrontendNodeRoutePartHandler`  such that it doesn't throw an
exception if the URL to a Shortcut node can't be resolved.

Instead the handler just won't handle this case, passing its handling on to the
next route (usually leading to a `NoMatchingRouteException` when no custom
route handles broken shortcuts).

Background:

When creating Shortcut nodes, the `mode` defaults to "first child node". If that new node
is published without a child node, the shortcut points to a non-existing node which
led to the exception.

* Related: `#3256 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3256>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: When copying nodes from another dimension, you are only allowed to re-use the other node's identifier if the identifier never appears in the target dimension <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3267>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


## PREREQUISITES

- a language dimension with two values, without fallbacks ("de" and "en")
- create a page in DE with content nodes "text1" and "text2"
- translate this page to EN and let it copy all content. "text1" also sts on EN now, and has the same identifier as in DE.
- publish everything.

## REPRODUCING THE BUG:

- select "text1" in "DE" and copy it
- switch to EN
- REMOVE the node "text1" in EN
- PASTE the node from the clipboard AFTER text2 (in EN).
- (this triggers the code we have here.)

## EXPECTED BEHAVIOR

- the pasted node is shown

## ACTUAL BEHAVIOR

- the pasted node is not shown, but is still in the database.
- it can happen that the node *is* shown, if it is inserted above the removed node. Still, we have an invariant violation nevertheless.
- this can also trigger problems when **publishing** the not-rendered-anymore-node (UniqueConstraint errors in the database) - this is how we actually found the error.

## Root Cause

ContentRepository Node.php createRecursiveCopy() checks only in the **current context** whether the target node identifier exists, and not taking deleted nodes into account.

## Affected versions

- We found this in Neos 5.3, but we'll fix it for 4.3, as it is the oldest supported version (and it will also exhibit this bug)

* Resolves: `#3265 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3265>`_

**What I did**

**How I did it**

**How to verify it**

* Packages: ``BaseMixins`` ``Browser`` ``ContentReferences`` ``ContentRepository`` ``Form`` ``Html`` ``Navigation`` ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes``

`BUGFIX: Avoid possible exception during sitemap rendering <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3251>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

hen rendering the XML sitemap with Neos.Seo sometimes an exception
occurs:

    No operation which satisfies the runtime constraints found for
    "context"

See https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/2968
for more details.

This change should fix that by returning null early, if there is no
"current" node.

* Fixes: `#2968 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/2968>`_
* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Set \`\`alt\`\` attribute per default for \`\`Neos.Neos:ImageTag\`\` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3250>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add alt attribute (empty by default) for full HTML conformance with validity checkers.
See https://www.w3.org/wiki/HTML/Usage/TextAlternatives

Bonus effect: Since screen readers will read the full file name when no
alt attribute is set at all, this will improve accessibility.
It is recommended to provide meaningful alternative texts for non-decorative images.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Neos``

`TASK: Add 7.0 ReleaseNotes <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3237>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix headline in release notes (5.2) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3246>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The headline "What has changed" is one level to high, so it will generate the wrong menu on the sidebar.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Tweak generated change log for 7.0.0 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3243>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- removes commits that were included due to our history-rewriting
- fixes code block rendering
- explains the challenge of having a simple detailed change log

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/7.0.0...7.0.1>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
