`7.1.9 (2022-07-15) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/7.1.9>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Fusion Array.keys() on null if documentNode doesnt exist in GlobalCacheIdentifiers <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3837>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

https://neos-project.slack.com/archives/C050C8FEK/p1657807863902929

For example when using Fusion in an ajax request, with cache enabled - but no documentNode provided as context, then the calculation of the GlobalCacheIdentifiers fails due to the Eel helper beeing incorrectly used.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Continue on error in ThumbnailGeneratorStrategy <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3828>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes the `ThumbnailGeneratorStrategy` continue with the next
available thumbnail generator in case `refresh()` failed. This allows
for a "fallback" to be used in case thumbnail generation fails.

Errors are logged to aid with debugging and if all generators fail
another separate error is logged.

See neos/neos-development-collection#3678 for some background info.

**Upgrade instructions**

**Review instructions**

* Packages: ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Check for Imagick in DocumentThumbnailGenerator <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3783>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `DocumentThumbnailGenerator` will now (again) check for
Imagick being the configured driver in `canRefresh()`. If the
`imagick` PHP extension is available and should  be used even
though Imagick is _not_ the driver for Imagine, a new feature flag
can be turned on:

```yaml
Neos:
  Media:
    thumbnailGenerators:
      Neos\\Media\\Domain\\Model\\ThumbnailGenerator\\DocumentThumbnailGenerator:
        # if set, the DocumentThumbnailGenerator will be used when possible, even if the
        # used Imagine driver would usually prohibit it's use (because GD doesn't do PDF)
        overrideImagineDriverCheck: true
```

If reading the source fails without an exception, an exception is
raised and passed on from the `refresh()` method. This e.g.
happens when the security policy of ImageMagick denies reading
PDF files.

* See: `#3678 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3678>`_

**Review instructions**

To have ImageMagick deny reading of PDF, as is needed to check this, the policy must be changed to include

    <policy domain="coder" rights="none" pattern="PDF" />

- the policy is usually in a place like `/etc/ImageMagick-6/policy.xml`
- for Local Beach it's inside the `php` container in `/opt/flownative/php/build/extensions/imagick/policy.xml`. To be able to edit it, you must use `docker exec -u root -it yourproject_php /bin/bash` to become `root` inside the container.

* Packages: ``Browser`` ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Adds missing documentation <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3819>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In Neos 7.0 we introduced the  `PropertyValue` filter for node migrations. With this change, we extend the documentation as well.

**Review instructions**

Please proofread the documentation change.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Equalize indentation of Neos.Fusion:Match example in docs <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3815>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- spaces and tabs were mixed up
- came up while working on the neos fusion plugin for vscode

No code changes. 

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/7.1.8...7.1.9>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
