`7.3.20 (2024-02-23) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/7.3.20>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Add assetcollection privilege condition to asset edit view in Media.Browser <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4404>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the Media.Browser you can change the AssetCollections via checkboxes even when you don't have the privilege (Neos.Media.Browser:ManageAssetCollections) to do so.
With this PR the checkboxes are only rendered with the right privilege.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Media.Browser``

`BUGFIX: MenuHelper uses content dimensions to get node for privilege check <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4269>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#4625 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4625>`_

The Neos backend MenuHelper received a bugfix to filter sites listed by the menu using NodePrivileges. In case of sites with multiple dimensions the dimensionCombinations are considered too.

**Upgrade instructions**

**Review instructions**

This bugfix tries to fix #4025. If 7.3 and upwards is used on a multi site project with multiple dimensions, it might be that
```
$node = $context->getNode(\\Neos\\ContentRepository\\Domain\\Utility\\NodePaths::addNodePathSegment(SiteService::SITES_ROOT_PATH, $site->getNodeName()));
```
returns ``null``, causing the next line
```
if ($this->privilegeManager->isGranted(NodeTreePrivilege::class, new NodePrivilegeSubject($node))) {
```
to throw an exception. Thus the backend is not accessible anymore.  
The reason is, that for multisite projects with multiple dimensions it might be that ``$node`` cannot be retrieved by the default context created.

The fix is to use ``contentDimensionCombinator`` and also to explicitly check if ``$node`` could be retrieved.  
I'm also using the property ``invisibleContentShown`` and ``inaccessibleContentShown`` because it might be that an editor set the Home of a site to ``hidden`` by mistake. Thus the site might not accessible via the menu anymore to possibly fix an editor mistake.


* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Add dimensions to Workspace module <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3986>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

resolves: `#3470 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3470>`_

This adds Dimension handling to the current workspaces module. 

Currently the Module only displays changes in different languages as one change. This is because the node path is the same in different languages after they are copied.


* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/7.3.19...7.3.20>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
