`8.0.7 (2022-11-03) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/8.0.7>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: 3371 shortcut translations <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3937>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

closes: `#3371 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3371>`_

## 1


> the dutch translation f.x. doesnt have correctly formatted ``<br/>`` tags. See f.x.: ``'shortcut.clickToContinueToParentNode'`` and compare the spanish ``&lt; br / &gt;`` to the english source ``&lt;br /&gt;``. A search for ``&lt; br / &gt;`` reveals multiple cases. The problem is, that this invalid html (due to the space) and will be rendered as text (``< br / >``).


before in NL:
!`image <https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/85400359/198111355-d5a4d9f5-f1b5-4b83-8f4a-1f3c914b4955.png>`_


after:
!`image <https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/85400359/198111385-575bd6b0-4044-436d-a145-e14d4934c778.png>`_

## 2

> this translation id doesnt exist: ``'shortcut.toSpecificTarget'`` so the value / fallback ``This is a shortcut to a specific target:`` is always used.

It has been missed in 2014 (since Neos 2) ^^ https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/`02f8ff96e1ecd3dfbd9a356c4c6f55bb565916c7 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/02f8ff96e1ecd3dfbd9a356c4c6f55bb565916c7>``_#diff-``d1bec08a4f5050d463e4f7af3d61b767974d858d <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/d1bec08a4f5050d463e4f7af3d61b767974d858d>`_3d56ced85581ca55c27126dcR6

before in DE (or any other language):
!`image <https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/85400359/198111487-39e7c03c-c132-4896-a12d-f25da087e07b.png>`_

after:
nothing to see here yet - but now we can translate via weblate :D

**Upgrade instructions**

**Review instructions**

Check the shortcode rendering in the backend.
If you switch your user language - flush the fusion cache - as this is not calculated into the shortcut cache:
 ``./flow cache:flushone Neos_Fusion_Content``



* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: fix typos in privilegeTargets <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3938>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


**Review instructions**

Fixes small spelling errors in the priviligeTargets


* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: DI conflict in DataSource `Call to a member function log Throwable() on null` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3931>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

closes `#3858 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3858>`_

when one throws an exception in a datasource, it fails logging it and an uncaught error is thrown, because the ``ThrowableStorage`` is not injected:

``Call to a member function log Throwable() on null``

this seems due to a dependency injection conflict with inheritance.

this pr only prevents this conflict from happening

the controller that handles datasources extends the ``AbstractServiceController``
which injects the ``throwableStorage``

```php
  /**
   * @Flow\\Inject
   * @var ThrowableStorageInterface
   */
  protected $throwableStorage;
```

but the  ``AbstractServiceController`` also extends the ``ActionController`` which injects the ``throwableStorage`` via an inject method into a private property

```php
    /**
     * @var ThrowableStorageInterface
     */
    private $throwableStorage;

    /**
     * Injects the throwable storage.
     *
     * @param ThrowableStorageInterface $throwableStorage
     * @return void
     */
    public function injectThrowableStorage(ThrowableStorageInterface $throwableStorage)
    {
        $this->throwableStorage = $throwableStorage;
    }

```

this combined doesnt work and results in the ``@Flow\\Inject`` in the ``AbstractServiceController`` not working

solutions are:

- fix the flow DI? (assuming this is a issue)
- rename the variable (what id did now)
- use also ``AbstractServiceController::injectThrowableStorage`` and call parent / not the ``@Flow\\Inject`` annotation
- use a protected property in ``ActionController`` and reuse it


## update 1
this is indeed defined behaviour from flow: https://flowframework.readthedocs.io/en/8.1/TheDefinitiveGuide/PartIII/ObjectManagement.html#property-injection
> If a setter method exists for the same property, it has precedence.



**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Node::countChildNodes($nodeTypeConstraints) filter doesn't work <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3930>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

closes `#3885 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3885>`_

``findChildNodes`` is corrently implemented, but ``countChildNodes`` doesnt transform the argument $nodeTypeConstraints NodeTypeConstraints to a string for the legacy api:

either this snipped must be included:
```php
$filter = $nodeTypeConstraints !== null ? $nodeTypeConstraints->asLegacyNodeTypeFilterString() : null;
```

or we must use ``$this->findChildNodes``

without that, the ``NodeTypeConstraints`` is passed further down, and due to lack of typesafety it fails at the last moment:
```php
Argument 2 passed to Neos\\Utility\\Arrays::trimExplode() must be of the type string, object given, called in /tmp/neos/Development/SubContextddev/Cache/Code/Flow_Object_Classes/Neos_ContentRepository_Domain_Repository_NodeDataRepository.php on line 1127
```

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``ContentRepository``

`BUGFIX: Fusion Runtime @process with simple string <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3847>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This makes it possible to use ``@process`` with a regular string.

Closes `#3846 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3846>`_

**Review instructions**
try the fusion code from the issue.

it now works as we switched a condition (the count will only happen if it is an array and not possibly a simple value)



* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Fusion``

`BUGFIX: Make import of .ico files possible <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3923>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This enables the possibility of uploading ``.ico`` files.

Closes `#3922 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3922>`_


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Fix media commands output <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3902>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fix Neos.Media commands ``media:clearthumbnails``, ``media:createthumbnails`` and ``media:removeunused`` to properly print a final newline.

Output before:
```
user $ ./flow media:clearthumbnails
0 [->--------------------------]user $
                                ^-- next prompt
```
Output after:
```
user $ ./flow media:clearthumbnails
0 [->--------------------------]
user $
```
Resolved: `#3894 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3894>`_

**Upgrade instructions**

None.

**Review instructions**

in ``bash``, execute
``./flow media:clearthumbnails``
(by default, ``zsh`` is less affected, it recovers but shows a percent sign)


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Media``

`TASK: Render API docs (again) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3934>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



* Packages: ``Media.Browser`` ``Neos`` ``.github``

`TASK: Use local fonts instead of from Google <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3919>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Removes the use of remote fonts from Google in favor of local font files.
Additionally ``node-sass`` was updated to allow compilation on M1 Macs.

Replaces `#3873 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3873>`_

**Review instructions**

Noto should still be the font used on error pages.


* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Rename index to match name in database <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3889>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Renames the index in the NodeData model to match the index name in migration and database.

* Fixes: `#3888 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3888>`_

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``ContentRepository``

`TASK: Add PHP 8.1 to build matrix <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3884>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Review instructions**

The build on PHP 8.1 should succeed.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``.github``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/8.0.6...8.0.7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
