`8.3.12 (2024-04-19) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/8.3.12>`_
================================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Fix the check for RedirectStorageInterface <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/5001>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Existance of interfaces needs to be checked with interface_exists

* Fixes: `#5000 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/5000>`_

* Packages: ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Remove br from role tooltip and improve readability <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4986>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A ``<br>`` was displayed as text in the title of roles in the user management module.
With this change it is replaced by a proper line break and the parent roles are now displayed as list with their name and identifier.

Before:

!`CleanShot 2024-04-11 at 13 37 07@2x <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/assets/596967/d1fc5f07-f5bd-454c-ab7d-196222537ad3>`_

After:

!`CleanShot 2024-04-11 at 13 40 50@2x <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/assets/596967/1cc40c6b-6222-495f-a22c-60f1592ed24b>`_

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Sort properties in raw content mode <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4957>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Previously there was no obvious sorting for properties in the ``Raw content`` mode and the resulting order of properties appeared "random", which is an issue if the properties don't appear in the order the editor should edit them.

With this change the sorting option which is also used for the inspector is used to sort the items and therefore giving an option to the integrator on their arrangement.

That the inspector order is used for the raw content is not the cleanest solution, but introducing another sorting option also doesn't seem the right choice at this point.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Make text formatting visible in raw content mode <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4985>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This change removes the css reset which made it impossible to
see any text formatting in raw content mode.

Also the font is now set to use the Neos font instead of just arial
which matches the backend default font.

Before:

!`CleanShot 2024-04-11 at 09 26 51@2x <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/assets/596967/3484adf2-0361-4b4f-8849-ca2f138acec4>`_

After:

!`CleanShot 2024-04-11 at 09 23 08@2x <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/assets/596967/ae9285f9-fc58-4847-9122-3aedeef8ddff>`_

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Strip image to prevent wrong orientation information in exif data <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4945>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

After autorotating the thumbnail image we need to remove the according exif data for the thumbnail, to prevent the thumbnail is shown rotated again.

See also: https://github.com/php-imagine/Imagine/issues/467

* Fixes: `#3148 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3148>`_ 

!`image <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/assets/13046100/c039f852-623c-4d8a-9848-416f0ab27498>`_

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Fix argument order of implode() <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4962>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Passing the separator after the array is not supported since PHP 8.0 anymore

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``ContentRepository``

`TASK: Update plupload library to latest 2.3.9 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/5004>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Backport of https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/5003 for 7.3

Fixes https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-rp2c-jrgp-cvr8: https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-23562

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Media.Browser``

`TASK: Update plupload library to latest 2.3.9 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/5003>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes CVE-2021-23562: https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-23562 

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Media.Browser``

`DOCS: Fix indentation of ImageEditor options <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4920>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/8.3.11...8.3.12>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
