`8.3.3 (2023-05-30) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/8.3.3>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Use correct configuration path for enableObjectTreeCache <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4301>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Due to the wrong path the value of enableObjectTreeCache was always interpreted as ``false``. So in Neos in production context the Cache was disabled.

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: RenderAttributesTrait allows Stringable objects <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4267>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RenderAttributesTrait converts Stringable objects to strings via ``__toString()``

related: `#4225 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4225>`_

**Upgrade instructions**

Not sure what to write here :thinking: 

**Review instructions**

Up until 8.3 it was possible to use EelHelpers with a fluent interface like API for attributes. E.g. the following was working fine in fusion afx:
```
class={[block.element('subline').modifier('light')]}
```
The variable ``block`` is an EelHelper which returns ``self``. In 8.3 this fails with an Exception
```
$attributes may contain values of type array<string|bool|null> type: array...
```
The reason is, that with PR #4225, in ``RenderAttributesTrait`` there are two different ways the object is processed:
1. In case ``$attributeValue`` is not an array, e.g. an object, it is basically converted to a string
2. In case of an array it is checked if ``$attributeValuePart`` is actually of type plain string, boolean or null. In case  of an object an exception is raised. This exception then breaks the previous behaviour in case of a ``\\Stringable`` object.


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Fusion``

`BUGFIX: point to 8.3.x-dev branch in README <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4260>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Set the correct branch name to setup the neos-development-collection for ``8.3.x-dev``


* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Add translation keys in translation files <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4237>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following translation keys are missing their translation in the Main.xlf file.

https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/blob/7.3/packages/neos-ui/src/Containers/LeftSideBar/index.js#L82
https://github.com/neos/neos-ui/blob/7.3/packages/neos-ui/src/Containers/LeftSideBar/NodeTreeToolBar/Buttons/ToggleContentTree/index.js#L39

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Fix missing icon in case of fusion errors <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4224>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Change html class for icon which gets rendered if a fusion error occurs.

Closes `#4223 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4223>`_


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Fusion``

`BUGFIX: make pagination work with Traversable <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4220>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes a warning: ``array_slice() expects parameter 1 to be array, object given in /…/Neos_ContentRepository_ViewHelpers_Widget_Controller_PaginateController.php line 124``

Variant of `#3891 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/3891>`_ based on the (correct) 7.3 branch.

* See: `#1112 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/1112>`_ 

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``ContentRepository``

`TASK: Require all collection packages as self.version <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4258>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Any dependency from one package in the collection to another should always be "to the same version".

This changes makes sure this is the case by using ``self.version`` as the required version.

See `#4257 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4257>`_

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``CliSetup`` ``Fusion.Afx`` ``NodeTypes.AssetList`` ``NodeTypes.BaseMixins`` ``NodeTypes.ColumnLayouts`` ``NodeTypes.ContentReferences`` ``NodeTypes.Form`` ``NodeTypes.Html`` ``NodeTypes.Navigation``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/8.3.2...8.3.3>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
