`8.3.7 (2023-12-12) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/releases/tag/8.3.7>`_
==============================================================================================

Overview of merged pull requests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`BUGFIX: Remove unnecessary basemixins dependency for ContentReferences <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4648>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The package has no direct dependency to the basemixins and should be usable without the other basemixins.

* Packages: ``NodeTypes.ContentReferences``

`BUGFIX: Replace incorrect mention of itemRenderer to itemReducer <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4785>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I'm not sure if we should target the 7.0 branch and then apply this to all following versions?

Was introduced here:
https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/`a7bc229541baa91dde6a85fbe4853b88db511af5 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/a7bc229541baa91dde6a85fbe4853b88db511af5>``_#diff-``3ed794da2fb825c61dd55eee6535b77958799b33 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/commit/3ed794da2fb825c61dd55eee6535b77958799b33>`_384df7c47ac2a22242608969R207-R210

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Add workspace hash to NodeDynamicTag_ and AssetDynamicTag_ cache tags <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4782>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#4781 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4781>`_ 

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Filter for assets by asset collection without overriding existing WHERE conditions <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4724>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The query to fetch assets gets build in multiple steps. E.g in ``findAll`` it creates the query, adds the "variant filter clause" and afterwards the "asset collection filter clause".

```
    public function findAll(AssetCollection $assetCollection = null): QueryResultInterface
    {
        $query = $this->createQuery();
        $this->addAssetVariantFilterClause($query);
        $this->addAssetCollectionToQueryConstraints($query, $assetCollection);
        return $query->execute();
    }
```
But adding the "asset collection filter clause" removes/overrides the existing "variant filter clause"

This fix replaces the way of setting "asset collection filter clause", so the existing where clauses are retained.

* Fixes: `#4723 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4723>`_

* Packages: ``Media``

`BUGFIX: flashmessages in legacy modules work as expected <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4765>`_
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This applies the, since a while unused, presets for message severity types to notifications in classic Neos backend modules again so that eg. warnings and errors stay on display and can be copied / screenshotted.

Also regenerates js maps that seem to have compiled wrongly before.

* Fixes: `#4672 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4672>`_

* Packages: ``Neos``

`BUGFIX: Check if image is possible to refit on replacement <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4753>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Fixes: `#4752 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4752>`_

Checks if the replacement is an image and has a size.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``NodeTypes.BaseMixins`` ``Media``

`BUGFIX: Fix and make `nodeTypes:show` command usable <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4619>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes handling of invalid nodetype or invalid path.

And introduces new option ``level`` to clamp the input (previously this command was useless for bigger nodetypes):

```
flow nodeTypes:show Neos.Demo:Document.Homepage --path properties --level 1
NodeType configuration "Neos.Demo:Document.Homepage.properties":

_removed: ...
_creationDateTime: ...
_lastModificationDateTime: ...
_lastPublicationDateTime: ...
_path: ...
_name: ...
_nodeType: ...
_hidden: ...
_hiddenBeforeDateTime: ...
_hiddenAfterDateTime: ...
titleOverride: ...
metaDescription: ...
...
```


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``ContentRepository``

`BUGFIX: Allow disabling of auto-created Image Variants <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4303>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fixes support for the setting ``autoCreateImageVariantPresets`` that was documented for a long time but never actually evaluated.

This change set:

* Adjusts ``AssetService::assetCreated()`` signal to only trigger ``AssetVariantGenerator::createVariants()`` if the ``autoCreateImageVariantPresets`` flag is set
* Sets the default value of the flag to ``true`` for greater backwards compatibility
* Adjusts ``AssetVariantGenerator::createVariant()`` to only create a variant if it does not exist already – previously multiple variants with the same identifiers could be created for a single asset leading to undeterministic behavior
* Adds a button "Create missing Variants" to the ``Variants`` tab of the Media Module allowing editors to manually trigger creation of (missing) variants.

* Fixes: `#4300 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4300>`_

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Media``

`BUGFIX: `props` will be unset after an exception <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4526>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Resolves: `#4525 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4525>`_

The rendering in a Neos.Fusion Component had a bug where the ``props`` might be undefined if an exception happened earlier in an eel expression.

This was caused by not correctly poping the runtimes context and thus causing a unexpected shift in the context stack.

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Fusion``

`BUGFIX: Reduce nodetype schema size <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4561>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With this change the following optimisations are done to improve speed and reduce size of the schema generation:

* Abstract nodetypes are not queried anymore for constraints as they are already resolved by the nodetype manager.

* Entries in the inheritance map and constraints will be skipped if they don’t contain any data.

These optimisations reduce the size of the schema in the Neos.Demo from ~357KB to ~300KB and improve the response time by ~20% in my tests.

The more nodetypes a project has, the bigger the benefit is.

**Review instructions**

Everything should work the same, adding nodes, constraints, etc.


* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Use role label in list users/new user view if available <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4793>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In Neos 7 (and with https://github.com/neos/flow-development-collection/issues/2162), role labels were introduced. While we now have a nice table view in the "edit account" view, the role label is not displayed anywhere else.

I'm aware that Neos 7 and 8 are in maintenance-only mode, but I think we all agree that Neos 8 will be around for quite a while. I suggest the minimal change to use the role label in the user list and the "new user" view if there is one.

- [N/A] Code follows the PSR-2 coding style
- [N/A] Tests have been created, run and adjusted as needed
- [x] The PR is created against the `lowest maintained branch <https://www.neos.io/features/release-roadmap.html>`_
- [x] Reviewer - PR Title is brief but complete and starts with ``FEATURE|TASK|BUGFIX``
- [x] Reviewer - The first section explains the change briefly for change-logs
- [N/A] Reviewer - Breaking Changes are marked with ``!!!`` and have upgrade-instructions

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Add PHP 8.3 to build workflow matrix <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4784>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This will test Flow against PHP 8.3


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``.github``

`TASK: Fusion Behat Test Make Sure To Throw Runtime Exceptions <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4743>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Additional fix for https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4686

Instead of manually declaring ``@exceptionHandler`` we set it automatically for the entry point ;) This will help us detect exceptions which would otherwise be absorbed.

Dont worry, this is only temporary and not at all needed with neos 9

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Adjust neos/neos css build to work on apple silicon <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4691>`_
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Add tests for FlowQuery `nextUntil`, `prevUntil`, `siblings` and `find` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4702>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The tests of ``nextUntil``, ``prevUntil``, ``siblings`` and ``find`` that were still missing.

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Add behat tests for flowQuery cr operations <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4695>`_
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This should help to ensure that the behvior of flowQuery stays compatible with Neos 9.


* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Add support information to package composer.json <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4690>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The git url will be useful for automating the split configuration later.

* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Media``

`TASK: 2nd fixup for PR #4641 ContentCollection.feature <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4686>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

see `#4641 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4641>`_

**Upgrade instructions**


* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Tweak dependency on neos/twitter-bootstrap <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4673>`_
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- move the dependency from ``neos/neos`` to ``neos/media-browser``
- change from ``*`` to ``^3.0.6`` (the first version allowing Neos 7.x)


* Packages: ``Neos`` ``Media.Browser``

`TASK: All dependencies within collection point to `self.version` <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4666>`_
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Re-adjusts dependencies to point to ``self.version`` for easier maintenance.

* Fixes: `#4257 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/4257>`_

* Packages: ``Neos``

`TASK: Behat-based Fusion tests (v1) <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/pull/4641>`_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Related: `#3594 <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/issues/3594>`_

* Packages: ``Neos``

`Detailed log <https://github.com/neos/neos-development-collection/compare/8.3.6...8.3.7>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
